

The Institute for Experiential AI is home to over 100 distinguished faculty and researchers dedicated to solving pressing challenges in society, technology, and business. This past academic year, our leaders achieved incredible milestones, including transformational research and grants, groundbreaking papers, and immersive AI educational experiences. In this month's newsletter, we celebrate these highlights. Tackle your enterprise challenges with exclusive access to multidisciplinary faculty by joining our Corporate Membership program.


Looping Back: 2024 Expeditions in Experiential AI Seminars featuring Faculty and Researchers
 

 

Watch leading faculty and researchers discussing critical areas in AI:

 

"Responsible AI for Suicide Prevention"

Annika Schoene


"Explainable AI in Computer Vision"

Agata Lapedriza

 

"Large Language Models and ChatGPT: What They Are and What They Are Not"

Walid Saba


"Wearable Biosensing to Predict Imminent Aggressive Behavior in Psychiatric Inpatient Youths with Autism"

Matthew S. Goodwin

 

"From Ethics Oversight to Integration: Reshaping the Role of IRBs for AI Research"

Cansu Canca


"Emotion AI: Separating Facts from Fiction"

Lisa Feldman Barrett

 

"AI’s Transformational Impact on Marketing"

Yakov Bart


"Generative Voice: Applications and Implications"

Rupal Patel

 

"How AI is Revolutionizing the Discovery of Materials"

Peter Schindler


Stay tuned for the upcoming semester!

 

 

Image removed by sender.

Faculty Spotlight: Director of AI Faculty, Jennifer Dy
 

 

Academic specialization is a double-edged sword. As researchers become more knowledgeable in their field, it becomes harder to find individuals who can traverse disciplines with grace and expertise. As the Director of AI Faculty, Jennifer Dy does exactly that, building and sustaining groundbreaking collaborations in fields as diverse as health, climate science, and psychology, all while overseeing a faculty that includes scientists, engineers, philosophers, and diplomats.

 

Image removed by sender.

“Any new multidisciplinary project or collaboration takes a long time to build,” Dy says. “You have to start by listening to each other.Typically, different domains have different languages, so any successful collaboration means figuring out a common language and working together to see what people need.That's why a lot of my collaborations are built on good working relationships that have been built through the years.”

 

Recently, Jennifer joined other Northeastern University researchers for the inaugural ClimaTech conference in Boston, presenting a panel conversation on climate change and how AI can help. Read about that event here, and learn about Jennifer’s research here.

More AI Stories & Events
 

 

Researchers from EPISTORM, the Northeastern-led network of disease forecasting efforts, developed risk maps highlighting bird flu hot spots.
Core Faculty Member Milad Siami published a paper exploring the use of WiFi infrastructure to detect robotic activities. Read the paper here. Learn about his research here.
Ram Hariharan spoke to Northeastern Global News about fitness tracking and the arbitrary benchmark of “10,000 steps a day.”
Industry leaders convened at an event co-hosted by BigID, Databricks, the Institute for Experiential AI, and the Roux Institute to discuss strategic leadership and innovation in the age of AI.
Can AI be used to help in suicide prevention? Institute researcher Annika Marie Schoene has been exploring how companies are developing AI tools for mental health, including their shortcomings and ethical implications.
 Featured Event  - ‍‍The State of AI in Precision Health: Join industry leaders, researchers, and policymakers on October 10, 2024, to learn how AI is accelerating and transforming health and life sciences.
We look forward to hosting Day 2 of the TECNA (Technology Councils of North American) 2024 Summer Conference, Wednesday, Aug. 8.
 

Image removed by sender.

 

 

Read about our research, faculty, and our institute. Learn about our AI Solutions Hub, our Corporate Membership Program, our Responsible AI Practice, our on-demand AI Ethics Advisory Board, and discover business opportunities.

 

 

Stay in the loop.

 
 


