Dear Students,

 

Can you believe that the end of the year is upon us and Commencement 2024 is less than four weeks away? There is so much to celebrate as we close out the academic year 2023-24. This is a busy and exciting time for all of us. I write today to share a few year-end announcements to help smooth the transition as spring semester’s classes wrap up: 


Last Day of Classes Activities
Volunteer at Commencement (and receive extra tickets for YOUR graduation)
Graduating Senior Survey
Senior Signing Day and Graduation Cords for Internships/Applied Learning 


LAST DAY OF CLASSES
As classes come to an end for the 2023-24 academic year, I recognize your hard work and share in the joy of your accomplishments. One of my favorite traditions for graduating students is the Wren Bell ringing! This Friday, many of our graduate students will ring the bell in celebration of their last day of classes, and one week later, senior undergraduates will ring it to celebrate their final day of classes at William & Mary. 

Friday May 3, the last day of classes, should be a fun day, but also a safe one. Please, keep your celebrations safe and remember we are all part of this One Tribe – be responsible and watch out for one another’s wellbeing. It’s the W&M thing to do.  As the attached schedule shows, a host of celebratory activities are planned for May 3 – with LOTS of free food. You can also access a range of special activities through the Health & Wellness app. 


VOLUNTEER FOR COMMENCEMENT
We are looking for student volunteers to assist with Class of 2024 Commencement events (large and small) Wednesday May 15 through Saturday May 18!  Volunteer now through GivePulse using your W&M credentials. 

A few benefits for volunteers:

Extended on-campus housing for students currently living on campus
Provided campus meals for on- or off-campus residents
Earning one additional "all-weather" commencement ticket for your own graduation ceremony (ticket is valid for both good weather and rain plan)
Opportunity to receive a *second* additional all-weather ticket for your own graduation if you volunteer for the main ceremony or 4 information station shifts PLUS one other weekend event

Register to volunteer! 


GRADUATING SENIOR SURVEY
Whether you are attending graduate/professional school, have accepted a job opportunity, are still looking, or anything in between, we want to know. The information your class shares will be confidential and reported in aggregate, and will be used by prospective students when making college decisions, current students when exploring career options, institutional accreditation, and national rankings. Visit our Outcomes page to see where previous class years have landed after graduation. Completing the Next Destination Survey is an integral part of the graduation process and makes an impact on William & Mary for all time coming.

If you are still in the search process, we’re here for you! You can access resources on wm.edu/career and search open positions and events in TribeCareers.wm.edu. You can also schedule an appointment with an advisor through TribeCareers.wm.edu, or by contacting our front desk at 757-221-3231. Advisors are available to meet through Zoom, on the phone, or in person year-round – including the summer.


SIGNING DAY FOR GRADUATING SENIORS
Have you participated in an internship, research, or other applied learning experience? The Office of Career Development & Professional Engagement is honored to provide Commencement cords representing your applied learning accomplishments at our inaugural Senior Signing Day Celebration on May 1, 2024, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in Sadler's Tidewater A&B – and you’re invited.

Join us and your classmates for food, prizes, and to collect your graduation cord to reflect any internship, research, or other applied learning experience you engaged in as a student. The prizes include but are not limited to W&M-branded Stanley cups, blankets, headphones, and speakers! Seniors who want to receive a graduation cord for their applied learning experiences should complete the MExP on TribeCareers (found in the “My Account” section), RSVP and attend the Signing Day Celebration! Completing the MExP form will also enter you into a month drawing for prizes!  

In these last busy days of the semester, I hope you’ll pause every now and again simply to savor time spent with one another in this beautiful place. And best of luck with final papers, projects, and exams!

Yours,
Ginger Ambler