Dear Students, 

Welcome back to campus for the spring semester! I hope you enjoyed the break and that your semester is off to a smooth start. The Office of the University Registrar recognizes that successful course registration is essential to navigating your academic career and that it can sometimes be a stressful process. We are pleased to announce that this spring we will introduce a new registration platform and enhanced processes that will improve your registration experience. 

Introducing PATH Registration 

Beginning in spring 2024, all students will register for summer and fall 2024 courses via PATH. This registration system is not part of Banner and allows you to build a registration cart outside of a timed environment. More comprehensive information will be shared with you as we approach registration. 

An introduction to the PATH registration system and updates about project implementation and timeline can be found on the University Registrar PATH webpage. PATH is available to you now, and the course search feature is live. While you are not yet able to build your registration cart – that step will happen during registration later this spring – you may now see the class search feature. I encourage you to visit and familiarize yourself with the site. Please note that summer and fall courses will not be available until February 26th. When you explore the course search feature, you will be practicing the search function with current spring 2024 courses. 

As we approach summer and fall registration, the Office of the University Registrar will provide information about how registration will work, navigating the system, and what to expect during the registration period. The information will be comprehensive and will be available in a variety of formats, including video tutorials, PDFs with screenshots, and open sessions with UREG staff. 

Enhanced Course Search Features in PATH 

·       Ability to exclude days and times from your search results 

·       Increased course attribute filters 

·       Ability to search for courses with low- or no-cost materials  

Waitlist for Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Courses 

We’re also excited to add the Automated Waitlist feature for undergraduate A&S courses. Waitlist will be activated once undergraduate students have built their registration carts and students’ initial schedules are posted – just in time for add/drop for fall to begin on April 18th. For additional information, you can attend one of the open sessions with UREG staff mentioned above.  

We are hopeful that implementing PATH and the waitlist option will improve the course registration experience for all involved, and we look forward to sharing it with you this spring. In the meantime, please review the project website, begin exploring the new platform, and stay tuned for additional information. Please reach out to registrar@wm.edu with any questions you may have. 

Sincerely,  

Alana R. Davis 

 