The State Journal-Register
Police: Ohio man's death now being investigated as a homicide in Springfield
By Tom Ackerman, Springfield State Journal- Register,
14 days ago
(This story was updated to add new information.)
The death of a 29-year-old man in Springfield is now being called a homicide.
Springfield police said the man, identified as Telley Palmer of Columbus, Ohio, was found with multiple gunshot wounds in the 400 block of South Illinois Street around 2:30 a.m. Palmer was taken to the hospital where he died from his injuries.
In a news release, police said the shooting happened after a fight involving multiple people at a Springfield bar earlier in the night. Police said they were not notified of the fight.
Police said at least three different guns were used and officers found 35 shell casings in the area.
Police have not said if they have any suspects as of Monday afternoon.
The shooting is under investigation.
Tom Ackerman covers breaking news and trending news along with general news for the Springfield State-Journal Register. He can be reached at tackerman@gannett.com.
Jacksonville Today18 days ago
Mississippi News Group2 days ago
Camilo Díaz12 hours ago
Camilo Díaz9 days ago
The Current GA2 days ago
Herbie J Pilato2 days ago
Dianna Carney24 days ago
The HD Post25 days ago
David Heitz19 days ago
WyoFile5 days ago
Robert Russell Shaneyfelt12 days ago
Dianna Carney8 days ago
David Heitz23 days ago
L.A. TACO2 days ago
Email
Subscribe
By signing up for our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy .
It’s essential to note our commitment to transparency: Our Terms of Use acknowledge that our services may not always be error-free, and our Community Standards emphasize our discretion in enforcing policies. As a platform hosting over 100,000 pieces of content published daily, we cannot pre-vet content, but we strive to foster a dynamic environment for free expression and robust discourse through safety guardrails of human and AI moderation.
Comments / 0
