Event Registration - The American Professional Society on the Abuse of Children
This event has completed.
Strategies to End School Corporal Punishment in the  United States
10/10/2024 - 10/10/202412:00 PM - 4:00 PMEastern Time
Event Description
12:00 pm - 1:00 pm ET School corporal punishment in the U.S.: Prevalence, attitudes, outcomes, and implications for policy The United States is one of only two developed countries that still allows corporal punishment in schools. Corporal punishment remains legal in U.S. public schools in 18 states and in private schools in 46 states. In this presentation, Dr. Gershoff will review the most recent data on prevalence of school corporal punishment as well as results of a 2024 survey of attitudes about school corporal punishment. She will also summarize research to date on the child outcomes linked to school corporal punishment. Presenter: Elizabeth Gershoff, Ph.D. 1:00 pm - 2:00 pm ET Working Together on a Federal Corporal Punishment Ban: Advocacy Opportunities for All In this workshop, you will learn about the current efforts to end corporal punishment at the federal level, including in Congress, agencies, and courts. You will also explore federal advocacy strategies that will allow you to participate in efforts to pass a federal ban on corporal punishment. Presenters: Morgan Craven, J.D. & Ellen Reddy 2:00 pm - 3:00 pm ET How to Build a State-Specific Evidence Base: Understanding the Use of Corporal Punishment in Arkansas Public School This workshop describes a recent series of studies conducted by Arkansans Against School Paddling, the official Arkansas State Chapter of the U.S. Alliance to End the Hitting of Children. The main purpose of this work is to create an Arkansas specific evidence base on the use of corporal punishment in public schools. Our research addresses four key inquiries: 1) determine which of Arkansas' 237 traditional public-school districts allow corporal punishment; 2) investigate which of these districts categorize corporal punishment as a "last resort" disciplinary measure, have parental opt-out policies, and require parent notification before using corporal punishment; 3) the frequency of corporal punishment in Arkansas’ public schools; and 4) potential disciplinary rate disparities between districts allowing corporal punishment and those prohibiting it. This research, guided by parent members of Arkansans Against School Paddling, seeks to address common misconceptions around the continued use of corporal punishment in the state. Presenter: Esaa Mohammad Sabti Samarah, MSW 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm ET Tools to End Corporal Punishment in Schools: Growing No Hit Schools and Addressing Cultural Resistance Join Stacie Leblanc and Reverend Darrell Armstrong for an engaging presentation on effective strategies to eliminate corporal punishment in schools. This session will delve into the implementation, growth, and support of No Hit Schools, leveraging parental rights and school liability arguments while addressing cultural and biblical concerns. Focusing on practical tools and evidence-based approaches, Stacie and Darrell will provide valuable insights for child abuse professionals, educators, social workers, school resource officers, administrators, and advocates committed to creating safer and more supportive learning environments for all school children. Don't miss this opportunity to learn how to foster positive change in your educational community. Presenters: Stacie Leblanc, J.D., M.Ed.  & Darrell Armstrong, DDIV., MDIV., ED.S.-MFT
