Forgot Your Password
Please enter your email address and we will send you a link to reset your password.
Please wait ...
First name
Last name
Apartments
Investment Property
By registering for an account, you accept the Boston Pads terms of use and privacy policy .*
You agree that BostonPads, Jacob Realty, NextGen Realty, Boardwalk Properties, Douglas Paul Real Estate, landlords, and property managers may call or text you about any inquiries you submit through our services, which may involve use of automated means and prerecorded/artificial voices. You do not need to consent as a condition of creating an account on BostonPads.com, renting any property, or buying any other goods or services. Message/data rates may apply.
Register
Property Owner Portal
Log into the Property Owner Portal or learn more about renting your properties with Boston Pads
Log In
Learn more
Advertise Your Property
Log into your Ad Portal Dashboard or learn more about marketing your property with Boston Pads
Location filter
15 Days on Boston Pads
Social Media Sharing Button
Shawmut MBTA station location! This great 2 bedroom/1 Bath condo is steps away from Shawmut Station, Peabody Square/ Ashmont T, Cronin Playground and local restaurants and all shopping and schools. This brick building condo complex has a new roof replaced in 2021. This property works well for owner occupants or rental. Easy commute to Downtown and numerous parks, shops, & restaurants surround this neighborhood! This unit is lead free and comes with granite counter tops, updated bathroom and hardwood floor.
Kitchen, Dining, and Appliances
Other Rooms
Bathrooms
Full Baths: 1
Bathroom 1 Features: Bathroom - Tiled With Tub & Shower, Flooring - Stone/Ceramic Tile
Amenities
Association Fee Includes: Heat, Hot Water, Laundry Facilities, Master Insurance, Refuse Removal, Snow Removal, Water
Utilities
Heat Zones: 1
Cooling: Wall AC
Cooling Zones: 1
Elevator: No
Lead Paint: Unknown
Date
Event
Price
Public School, Grades: PK-5
0.27mi
Charter School, Grades: PK-12
0.46mi
McDonald's
Fire Station
Local Police
Library
0.28mi
15
18
215
0.22mi
15
18
215
0.29mi
15
18
215
0.34mi
26
0.37mi
MLS ID#: 73296228
© 2024 MLS Property Information Network, Inc.. All rights reserved.
The property listing data and information set forth herein were provided to MLS Property Information Network, Inc. from third party sources, including sellers, lessors and public records, and were compiled by MLS Property Information Network, Inc. The property listing data and information are for the personal, non commercial use of consumers having a good faith interest in purchasing or leasing listed properties of the type displayed to them and may not be used for any purpose other than to identify prospective properties which such consumers may have a good faith interest in purchasing or leasing. MLS Property Information Network, Inc. and its subscribers disclaim any and all representations and warranties as to the accuracy of the property listing data and information set forth herein.
MLS PIN data last updated at 2024-10-06 09:03:00
Contact Us
Boston Pads
"*" indicates required fields
Text me more listings like this!
*You agree to the Boston Pads Terms of Use & Privacy Policy . By choosing to contact a property, you also agree that BostonPads, Jacob Realty, NextGen Realty, Boardwalk Properties, Douglas Paul Real Estate, landlords, and property managers may call or text you about any inquiries you submit through our services, which may involve use of automated means and prerecorded/artificial voices. You don't need to consent as a condition of renting any property, or buying any other goods or services. Message/data rates may apply.
Related Properties
Dorchester Condo For Sale, Contingent, 1 Bed, 1 Bath, 715 Square Feet - List Price $329,000
Contingent
