Transforming Lives, Spirit, Soul, & Body
Healing Your Body From The Inside Out
It is easy to feel overwhelmed and stressed in our constantly connected world. When you don’t have the balance between your mind and body, it can be hard to do your best. When you feel this way, it’s time for you to restore, renew, and revive your body from the inside out. And what better place to do this than at ReVive Integrative Wellness?
Unlimited Healing
Ask about our UNLIMITED HEALING SERVICES. We currently offer 2 packages below. Give us a call at (325) 660-6926 to book your free tour and consultation today!
✔️ 10% Off All Other Services
Very professional staff and lovely atmosphere. Their work is top notch! I highly recommend!
Tracy Y
The people are awesome! My family has spent all morning here and we have all had different services. Relaxation!
Lee S
Brian excels at what he does. With my input, he identifies exactly what my body needs at each session so...
Cara H
Healing, Bodywork & Expert Massage Therapy Services
At ReVive Integrative Wellness, we are specialized in bringing restoration and relaxation to those who need healing. Whether you’re looking for medical, therapeutic, or pre/post natal bodywork services – we’ve got what you need!
When you visit our spa, your needs will be our most important focus. Our priority is to help restore, renew, and revive your body from the inside out.
Our services include medical, therapeutic, relaxation, and pre/post natal bodywork. In addition to bodywork, we also offer pediatric bodywork healing services and aesthetics.
Our staff has decades of combined experience in their fields and will walk you through the healing process every step of the way.
We Listen
We visit with you before each session in order to hear what you are saying and listen to your needs. Nothing feels better than feeling like someone has listened to you.
We Care
We recognize that your spirit, soul, and body all need attention. We pay attention to these needs and care about you as a person. Feeling cared about accelerates your healing
We Create Results
Our approach to treatment is using evidence-based therapy which produces instant results in which pain leaves
book now
Book Now & Start Feeling Better
If you’re ready to start feeling better, book now and schedule your appointment with us! We can’t wait to see you!
contact us
contact us
Ask about our UNLIMITED HEALING SERVICES. We currently offer 2 packages above Give us a call at (325) 660-6926 to book your free tour and consultation today!
Now offering Infusions
ReVive has partnered with Big Country Mobile Med!Big Country Mobile Med is a minor urgent care service that serves Abilene and the surrounding 20 miles. Skip the line and recline, let Big Country Mobile Med come to you! You are in good hands with Clay!Clay will be at ReVive on Thursdays 1PM – 5PM
