Help me to evacuate from Gaza war
Hala Alagha is organizing this fundraiser on behalf of Rahaf Abdalmajid Hussein  Alihussein.
Donation protected
Hi, My name is Hala, I'm 18 years old, I live with my family in Gaza. I have finished my high school in 2023 with a grade of 94.9 in the scientific stream and began studies at the university,
which was destroyed at the beginning of the war,Unfortunately, my dreams and ambitions were completely destroyed.
We have all been displaced more than seven times to seek safety , We escaped death several times،When we were displaced to the south, this did not mean that we fled to safety, but rather the opposite. Everywhere around us there was bombing all around us and fire belts all the time. And also the malnutrition we suffer from. We have been here for 6 months, haven’t eaten something healthy.
All had dreams but they were completely destroyed after October 7th.My father was snacks merchant and his store was completely burned when we fled south to find safety, My uncle Was working in a hotel Which was completely destroyed and has no source of income left now , My grandfather and grandmother are diabetics and unable to walk. When we were displaced, they found it very difficult to move. They need wheelchairs, which is impossible for them to have now, and they need a lot of medicines that are indispensable, but we had to replace them with very low quality and perhaps inappropriate alternative medicines. We cannot afford to pay the money to get out of this devastating war. We have survived death several times and have been displaced several other times from one place to another to search for safety. We now do not have enough to pay the money to leave Gaza.
My grandfather's condition deteriorated during the war. He was very tired, and we discovered that he had water in his lungs, water in his foot, and swelling in his feet. There is no necessary treatment for him, and there are no highly qualified doctors and no hospitals. Now, I only want to save my grandfather's life as quickly as possible.
Why did we think of this fund raising?
This is the only way to survive as we have to pay $5000 for each person to cross borders to safety.
Wish you could help us.
I wish you help me and save us.
(Note: 11 SEK = 1$)
Easy
Powerful
Send help right to the people and causes you care about
Trusted
Secondary menu
