Stay on top of the trends and ahead of the competition with our resources and expertise.
Event Details
Date/Time: Wednesday, October 16th, 2024 from 1:00 pm to 2:00 pm
Key Topics:
Framework for responsible adoption
Who Should Attend:Foundation Board Members, Executives, Chief Financial Officers, Chief Technology Officers, Controllers, Program Officers and other Private Foundation Professionals.
Featured Speaker:Technology Association of Grantmakers Jean Westrick , Executive Director Hosts:PKF O’Connor Davies Anan Samara , EA, Partner Scott Brown , CPA, Partner
CPE Credit:1 CPE credit in Specialized KnowledgeNo prerequisites or advanced planning requiredProgram Level: BasicDelivery Method: Group internet based
For information regarding complaint and/or program cancellation policies, please contact l&dsupport@pkfod.com.
PKF O’Connor Davies is registered with the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) as a sponsor of continuing professional education on the National Registry of CPE Sponsors. State Boards of Accountancy have the final authority on the acceptance of individual courses for CPE Credit. Complaints regarding registered sponsors may be submitted to the National Registry of CPE Sponsors through its website: www.nasbaregistry.org.
What you need to know…and may have missed.
"PKF O'Connor Davies" is the brand name under which PKF O'Connor Davies LLP and PKF O'Connor Davies Advisory LLC, independently owned entities, provide professional services in an alternative practice structure in accordance with applicable professional standards. PKF O'Connor Davies LLP is a licensed CPA firm that provides attest services and PKF O'Connor Davies Advisory LLC and its subsidiary entities provide tax and advisory services. View full disclosure
“PKF O’Connor Davies” is the brand name under which PKF O’Connor Davies LLP and PKF O’Connor Davies Advisory LLC provide professional services.
PKF O’Connor Davies LLP and PKF O’Connor Davies Advisory LLC practice in an alternative practice structure in accordance with the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct and applicable law, regulations and professional standards. PKF O’Connor Davies LLP is a licensed independent CPA firm that provides attest services to its clients and PKF O’Connor Davies Advisory LLC and its subsidiary entities provide tax and business advisory services to their clients. PKF O’Connor Davies Advisory LLC and its subsidiary entities are not licensed CPA firms.
The entities practicing under the PKF O’Connor Davies brand are independently owned and are not liable for the services delivered by any other entity providing services under the PKF O’Connor Davies brand. Our use of the terms “our Firm,” “we,” “us” and similar terms denote the alternative practice structure of PKF O’Connor Davies LLP and PKF O’Connor Davies Advisory LLC.
PKF O’Connor Davies is the lead North American representative of the international association of PKF member firms. PKF International is a network of legally independent member firms providing accounting, tax and business advisory services in more than 400 locations in 150 countries around the world.
Contact Us
