In order to use RunSignup, your browser must accept cookies.  Otherwise, you will not be able to register for races or use other functionality of the website.
			However, your browser doesn't appear to allow cookies by default.
Click the “Accept Cookie Policy” button below to accept the use of cookies on your browser.
If you still see this message after clicking the link, then your browser settings are likely set to not allow cookies.
				Please try enabling cookies.  You can find instructions at https://www.whatismybrowser.com/guides/how-to-enable-cookies/auto .
Accept Cookie Policy
Check out this race!
Please be advised that utilizing this text feature may result in additional SMS and data charges from your mobile service provider.
Events
Description
Get ready to lace up your sneakers and join the UWM Alumni Association for the 2024 Panther Prowl 5K Virtual Run/Walk. This event is your opportunity to challenge yourself while you make a difference for UWM students. Register today, mark your calendar to run/walk October 9 - 13 and snap a photo of yourself on your route to share with Panthers worldwide. Why a virtual experience for 2024? The event is virtual due to ongoing construction in the area, respect for the Yom Kippur holiday and logistical barriers to rescheduling it for another date. The Alumni Association expects to return to the in-person Prowl format in 2025.
Registration Includes
Race bib
How it Works
The Panther Prowl Virtual 5K Run/Walk provides you with the ultimate flexibility to choose your own route, your own pace and your own date and time to complete the 3.1 miles individually or with your Team. Complete your 5K on a treadmill, campus, a trail or in your own neighborhood.
1- Register for the Panther Prowl2- Complete your miles any time between Oct. 9 - 13, 20243- Post photos of your route and of you completing your miles and tag us on social media @UWMAlumni and use #PantherProwl. This will enter you into a drawing for a chance to win your choice of Apple or Google wireless headphones, gift cards and UWM swag!
Packet Pickup
Wed. Oct. 9 | 4:00 - 7:00 p.m. & Thurs. Oct. 10 | 4:00 - 7:00 p.m. Performance Running Outfitters 4533 N. Oakland Ave., ShorewoodYou may also elect to have your virtual race packet mailed.
Team Fundraising
The UWM Alumni Association invites you or your organization to form a team. Teams are a great way for your group to stay connected for a great cause - supporting student scholarships at UWM! We invite you to create a team by clicking on the Group/Teams tab and then selecting the Register & Create Group/Team button.
All teams are eligible to win one of two awards presented annually by the UWM Alumni Association. The Stan Stojkovic Team Fundraising Award honors the team who collectively raises the most money for UWM students in need, and the Largest Team Award is presented to the team with the most participants. Awardees receive both a trophy to showcase until next year’s event and bragging rights, but the real winners are the UWM students who benefit from the generous support.
Virtual Event Contact Info
If you have any questions about this Virtual Event, click the button below.
Questions?
Name *
Email *
Phone
Question/Message *
Your question/message has been sent to the race director.
Email
Comment
Submit
Powered by RunSignup
Enter your email address and we will send you instructions to reset your password if there is an account for that email.
					Check your spam folder if you do not receive it.
Email *
Password *
Keep me logged in.
Sign In
If you continue to use this site, you consent to use all cookies. We use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience. Read how we use cookies and how you can control them by visiting our Privacy Policy .
If you continue to use this site, you consent to use all cookies.
Learn More
We use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience. Read how we use cookies and how you can control them by visiting our Privacy Policy .
I Accept
