We want to bring independence, transparency, accountability and honesty to the NHS Complaints process. There needs to be a fair, patient-focused system, that removes the ability to dismiss patients concerns.
About Our Campaigning
We are passionate about the way concerns and complaints by staff, patients and their families are dealt with by the NHS and the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman (PHSO). From the lived-experience of all our members, we have identified that the current process is simply untenable. As such, we are calling for a Independent NHS Complaints Service (INCS) to be established, to undertake patient complaints in a truly open, honest and independent way.
Honesty
Accountability
Fairness
Transparency
How are we bringing about this vital change?
Raising awareness of the reality of the current NHS Complaints process through social media, this website, 'X' and the mainstream media.
Telling our stories and sharing our lived-experiences.
Campaigning to the Government to inform them as to the issues being faced by patients.
We are writing to our local MPs, as well as approaching each All-Party Parliamentary Group with an interest in the Health and Justice fields seeking their support.
Working on a robust and comprehensive proposal to be presented to the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) that provides a workable solution to achieve the aims of the campaign.
Online petition to demonstrate the sentiment of the general public.
OUR OFFICIAL LITERATURE - FOR YOUR TO DOWNLOAD AND SHARE
How can you get involved?
Share this website and our social media posts with your family, friends and colleagues.
Join our campaign FB Group – where there are additional resources, such as letter templates to send to your local MP.
Follow us on Twitter / X: https://x.com/keepnhshonest
Read our stories and experiences, this will inform you of the reality faced by so many people across the country, and what you could face within the NHS Trust in your area.
Share your own stories and experiences with us. We have a section dedicated to sharing our lived-experiences, demonstrating the wide-spread issues we have all faced – and that we are not alone in our experiences.
Exploring the Complaints process of the NHS and its current status.
Let's start off by looking at the current Complaints process that is used with the NHS. Here we explain how the current system works, and identifies where the system could be substantially improved.
An internal market for healthcare operates within the NHS. Services are bought on behalf of patients by commissioners (Integrated Care Boards - abbreviated as ICBs) from providers. Whilst providers can be in the private sector, most services are purchased from within the NHS (typically from NHS Trusts). Together the Trusts and the ICB within a local health economy form an Integrated Care System (ICS) which is responsible to NHS England at a national level.
When it comes to procedures and policies, each NHS Trust can formulate and write their own, though most follow the templated guidelines and policies, laid out by NHS England, for their own ease, of both cost and compliance.
With regards to the Complaints Process, each Trust has their own policy, but in general they follow the same process.
The Complaints Process is the sole responsibility of the Trust and is undertaken and instigated by their own Complaints Department.
When an investigation is started, it is usual practice to call on the services of existing staff members, of appropriate seniority, to undertake the “investigation”, which would involve talking with the staff and departments about whom the complaint is concerned.
This does not mean that the individual tasked with the investigation has any medical knowledge of that particular area of the complaint. For example, a pharmacist could be commissioned to undertake an investigation into Mental Health or psychiatry.
The investigator works for, is paid by and answerable to the same management team, who oversee the staff and department the department or staff they are “investigating”.
It should be noted that the NHS Trust has the Complaints department as well as any investigators seconded in from their day-job, under contract and will be paying these staff members directly. This inherently creates an unconscious bias.
It also should be noted that any staff seconded to undertake an investigation as part of a complaint, have been taken away from the usual role – which may lead to an impact on the provision medical services to other patients. The investigators are meant to have undertaken a short course to qualify them to take on this role. However, it is clear to any observer that a pharmacist, or consultant have studied and chosen a career as per their job title, and not sought to be a police officer or detective. The secondment is essentially not in their skillset or career aspirations. The question could be asked about their conscientiousness, determination or pride in undertaking this task to the best of their abilities. Taking into account the next few points, the role of the investigator may raise some significant questions.
They may well know or have dealt with these members of staff during their career.
The investigator will certainly be fully aware that those being investigated are colleagues, work for the same Trust and potentially could be investigating them in the future, should a complaint be raised that involved them.
The investigator, even with the best intentions, cannot therefore be completely independent. It would be a near impossibility with the factors above to remain totally independent.
The investigator, once concluded their interviews and made their notes accordingly, then pass these notes back to the Complaints Department. Here, the administrative staff compile the formal response, and can amend, change, edit and word this response however they see fit. Or how their managers and directors above them see fit.
The formulation of the complaint response, will inevitably be written and worded to ensure the Trust itself is painted in as much of a positive light as possible. It is NOT in their interest to be honest, supportive of the patient or uphold any aspect of the complaint, if they can possibly dismiss it.
Once drafted, the response letter is vetted by several levels of management and director level staff. Each further removed from the frontline, from the patients, and closer to the board level, and the ethos of protecting the reputation of the Trust. Their own jobs and livelihoods depend on this reputation, so again, it is in their own interests to dilute down and gloss over anything and everything they can, in order to protect their reputation.
The final resolution letter is signed off by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Trust. The person most removed from the frontline, the patients and the reasons for the complaint being raised.
The response letter has only one signature. That of the CEO. The many hands who have moulded the response are not signatories. There is no transparency, other than the name of the investigator – who is identified by name only – and not by job title, experience or seniority. No mention is made within the response letter of the administrator's or Complaints department's role, who actually draft the letter.
The Trust only permit a complaint to be made within a set time-limit, usually 12 months from the incident, or from the time the patient became aware of the incident that is being complained about.
The Trust, however, are able to take as long as they wish to look into the complaint. They can drag it out as long as they wish. It seems that this is common practice.
Once completed and issued back to the patient, the Trust are then able and have the right to then cut off all further correspondence regarding the complaint. They are at liberty to state they have looked into the complaint, aren’t willing to do anything further, and direct you to the PHSO (Ombudsman) if you are not satisfied with the outcome.
As a patient, having waited up to a year to receive the response to your complaint, the Trust are fully able to brush it aside, in the knowledge that the only further option for an unhappy patient is to go to the PHSO.
The PHSO, is, in our lived-experiences and from the data available, not a friend of the patient. We cover their process in our next section – What about the PHSO?
Overview of the complaint resolution journey at PHSO
After completing the local Complaints process with the NHS Trust, and if you are still not satisfied that your complaint has been resolved to your satisfaction, the next step in the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman (PHSO). In this section we explore the process and the ins and outs of the PHSO. We look at the current system and powers that it holds, as well as the issues that have been identified through our lived-experiences. We question whether the PHSO really achieves what it supposed to do.
The PHSO is the next stage for a patient to refer their complaint, should they not be satisfied with the outcome and response from the NHS Trust to whom they have to complain first.
The PHSO also has a time limit of 12 months for you to make a complaint to them. However, as the NHS Trust can take up to 12 months, the patient has to make a strong case as to the actual timeframe, in their initial submission to the Ombudsman if  it's beyond their arbitrary 12-month deadline.
One must remember that patients raising complaints may still be suffering or struggling from the ailments that brought them into contact with the NHS in the first place.
It takes time to compile and submit the initial complaint to the Trust, which may have to be completed in a short time frame, with their 12-month submission deadline.
The Trust are then at liberty to take as long as they wish to respond to the patient. The patient then has to go through the ordeal of reading this response, and find the wherewithal to take the matter further, should they not be satisfied with the response.
Only then would they make the steps necessary to submit their complaint to the Ombudsman.
The statistics from the PHSO over the cases they handle are of serious concern. Having been through the original process with the NHS Trust, the patient has made a difficult decision to escalate it to the PHSO, yet at Stage 1, the initial cursory review, the PHSO rejects around 75% (estimated) of all complaints submitted to them.
The PHSO have stated themselves that they “don’t even possess the authority or powers to elicit an apology, even when they conclude there has been wrong-doing”.
Their £44M annual budget, covering parliament and the NHS, amongst others, is clearly insufficient, when so few cases make it to Stage 2, which is no more than a desktop study of easily available information; primarily 2 documents, the original complaint, and the response by the Trust. From our experience, the way the response letters are written, it could almost be said to be aimed at the Ombudsman, knowing their procedures, and that Stage 2, if the complaint makes it that far, undertakes no checks and balances, no investigations, but simply a read through and comparison of the 2 key documents. Whatever is included by the Trust, in investigating itself, and judging itself, is taken at face value, and accepted as fact. This may well be acceptable in theory, but in practice, as noted in previous sections, the reality is the response is heavily diluted and written to persuade the Ombudsman they do not need to look into them any further.
We can present many examples of response letters containing intentionally misleading “facts”, that the patient will instantly identify as being false, yet to a third party, these intentionally misleading statements, make the Trust sound diligent and ethical. There is simply no check or corroboration of the facts presented by the Trust in their response letters, during a Stage 2 review. It would appear that the Trusts are fully aware of this and write their response accordingly.
How can this third-party, in the PHSO, have any influence or resolve over the actions of the NHS Trusts it is meant to be overseeing, when no actual check or investigations are undertaken until Stage 3 is reached? By Stage 3, there are only a few percent of all cases that make it this, and are actually investigated.
Even once a complaint reaches Stage 3 and the PHSO “investigates”, PHSO have stated that they are unlikely, if ever, to attend the NHS Trust in question or re-interview any of the staff mentioned within the Complaint. How they review, investigate and conclude what is appropriate seems to be kept secret.
At the conclusion of Stage 3, even if the PHSO does find in favour of the Complainant, and provides recommendations to the Trust, these are just that “recommendations”. The Trust has no legal duty or obligation to act on these recommendations, implement any changes nor follow any guidance. As noted above, the powers held by the PHSO are non-existent, and as they themselves have pointed out, they do not even possess the power to insist on an apology.
Is there any wonder that each NHS Trust feels at ease providing intentionally misleading and dismissive responses to complaints, when they know that even in the 1 in 100 chance that a complaint reaches Stage 3 with the ombudsman, they still do not have to act on the recommendations that may be forthcoming?
Analysing past legal rulings sheds light on potential outcomes for current NHS complaints.
We have been looking at the NHS Complaints Process, and the next step of taking your complaint to the Ombudsman. These reviews have highlighted issues that perhaps question the robustness, fairness or even bias - conscious or not, of these processes.
Let's take a look at what might help guide us, in terms of ethics and legal frameworks that may address some of these issues. We could perhaps look to our long standing legal profession for some carefully considered and debated ideas to point us in the right direction.
There are several legal precedents that we could reference when it comes to the validity of the current system of Complaints that is being employed by the NHS.
Let’s remember that the NHS is believed to be the single largest employer in Europe, with approximate 1.2M full-time staff equivalence. This means that they employ more than this figure, but the hours put in by all staff, from orderlies, admin staff and clinicians is equivalent to that of 1.2M full-time employees.
For an idea of scale, another national, public body, the Police service employ approximately 120,000 full-time staff equivalence. A factor of 10 times smaller, yet it is deemed necessary and appropriate that they utilise an independent complaints service, staffed by employees who have applied specifically to take on that role, not seconded from their usual “day-job”.
So, with the above in mind, what aspects of our legal institution are we able to draw on, to set appropriate standards for such a large organisation?
1.  The guiding principle is that no one may be a judge in his own cause: nemo debet esse judex in propria causa
As referenced in the link below*, from the published judgements from the House of Lords, I refer to the formal published opinion Lord Goff of Chieveley, in the published document: “OPINIONS OF THE LORDS OF APPEAL FOR JUDGMENT IN THE CAUSE - IN RE PINOCHET”. (Full publication as noted in ** below).
“I am of the opinion that the principle which governs this matter is that a man shall not be a judge in his own cause--nemo judex in sua causa: see Dimes v. Grand Junction Canal (1852) 3 H.L.C. 759, 793, per Lord Campbell. As stated by Lord Campbell in that case at p. 793, the principle is not confined to a cause to which the judge is a party, but applies also to a cause in which he has an interest. Thus, for example, a judge who holds shares in a company which is a party to the litigation is caught by the principle, not because he himself is a party to the litigation (which he is not), but because he has by virtue of his shareholding an interest in the cause. That was indeed the ratio decidendi of the famous case of Dimes itself. In that case the then Lord Chancellor, Lord Cottenham, affirmed an order granted by the Vice-Chancellor granting relief to a company in which, unknown to the defendant and forgotten by himself, he held a substantial shareholding. It was decided, following the opinion of the judges, that Lord Cottenham was disqualified, by reason of his interest in the cause, from adjudicating in the matter, and that his order was for that reason voidable and must be set aside. Such a conclusion must follow, subject only to waiver by the party or parties to the proceedings thereby affected.”
This is also reiterated by LORD HOPE OF CRAIGHEAD, in the same publication, stating “One of the cornerstones of our legal system is the impartiality of the tribunals by which justice is administered. In civil litigation the guiding principle is that no one may be a judge in his own cause: nemo debet esse judex in propria causa. It is a principle which is applied much more widely than a literal interpretation of the words might suggest. It is not confined to cases where the judge is a party to the proceedings. It is applied also to cases where he has a personal or pecuniary interest in the outcome, however small. In London and North-Western Railway Co. v. Lindsay (1858) 3 Macq. 99 the same question as that which arose in Dimes v. Proprietors of Grand Junction Canal (1852) 3 H.L.Cas. 759 was considered in an appeal from the Court of Session to this House. Lord Wensleydale stated that, as he was a shareholder in the appellant company, he proposed to retire and take no part in the judgment. The Lord Chancellor said that he regretted that this step seemed to be necessary. Although counsel stated that he had no objection, it was thought better that any difficulty that might arise should be avoided and Lord Wensleydale retired. In Sellar v. Highland Railway Co. 1919 S.C. (H.L.) 19, the same rule was applied where a person who had been appointed to act as one of the arbiters in a dispute between the proprietors of certain fishings (sic) and the railway company was the holder of a small number of ordinary shares in the railway company.
It is clear from the above, that it is inappropriate for the NHS Trusts to both investigate and judge themselves. There is clear and historic providence for such. As stated this is the cornerstone of fairness and accountability.
2.  The "Wednesbury Principle": a test for reasonableness
Further to this key precedent, we may also cite the “Wednesbury Principle”, another legal precedent, that is still utilised in modern day legal arguments.
In the famous case of Associated Provincial Picture Houses Limited v Wednesbury Corporation [1948] 1 KB 223, [1947] 2 All ER 680 the Court of Appeal held that Wednesbury Corporation had acted reasonably and intra vires when it granted Associated Provincial Picture Houses a licence under the Sunday Entertainments Act 1932 to show films in its cinema on a Sunday which was subject to a condition that no children under the age of 15 years should be admitted on a Sunday with or without an adult. (Ref “New Law Journal” see link *** below)
This case introduced a test for reasonableness of an administrative decision which became known as Wednesbury unreasonableness.
In Council of Civil Service Unions v Minister for the Civil Service [1985] AC 374, [1984] 3 All ER 935 Lord Diplock called this ‘irrationality’ and he went to say at 410: ‘By “irrationality” I mean what can by now be succinctly referred to as “Wednesbury unreasonableness”. … It applies to a decision which is so outrageous in its defiance of logic or of accepted moral standards that no sensible person who had applied his mind to the question to be decided could have arrived at it.’
What this means in relation to the NHS Complaints process, comes to the principle of what “accepted moral standards” would be applied be a “sensible person”.
As such, in this case, a “sensible person” would not apply in-house investigations into such serious matters, with the NHS Trusts dealing with life and death and quality of life of patients. A “sensible person” would expect high levels of professionalism of the clinicians employed to look after their well-being, and that any complaints be investigated in a fair, transparent and accountable manner. In a way where any issues of poor practice, errors or mistakes are learnt from, and the issues put right for the patient. The welfare of the patient being the focus of what a “sensible person” would expect.
3. The General Medical Council's: Professional Duty of Candour
What other guiding principles can we call upon to formulate an appropriate and proportionate system, that guides fairness, to both staff and patients where a complaint has been raised? We cold perhaps look at guidance published by the General Medical Council (GMC). (Ref General Medical Council website – link **** below)
Under “Domain 2: Patients, partnership and communication” and the heading “Being open if things go wrong” the GMC states the following:
You must be open and honest with patients if things go wrong. If a patient under your care has suffered harm or distress, you must follow our guidance on Openness and honesty when things go wrong: the professional duty of candour , and you should:
put matters right, if possible.
apologise (apologising does not, of itself, mean that you are admitting legal liability for what’s happened).
explain fully and promptly what has happened and the likely short-term and long-term effects.
report the incident in line with your organisation’s policy so it can be reviewed or investigated as appropriate – and lessons can be learnt and patients protected from harm in the future.
4. The use of "similar fact evidence"
The use of Similar Fact evidence has been part of our legal system in excess of 100 years. The details of what it is, and when it is applicable, noted below, are extracted from the House of Commons website - as linked below*****
The modern similar fact principle was formulated in the case of Makin v. Attorney General for New South Wales, 1894 (AC 57, 65). In this case Lord Herschell reaffirmed the presumption that similar fact evidence would not normally be admitted. He went on to outline the exceptional circumstances in which this exclusionary principle could be overridden. Evidence of similar facts could not be admitted merely because it seemed relevant to the count on the indictment, but only if it was both relevant and probative.
In Makin (1894) the two defendants, a husband and wife, were accused of murdering a baby they had fostered. In their trial evidence was offered of a number of other murders they had apparently committed. The admissibility of the similar fact evidence in this case turned on the improbability of there being any innocent explanation for the presence of the bodies of 12 other fostered infants buried in the gardens of premises previously occupied by the defendants.
The use of such similar fact evidence, as noted above, should be both relevant and probative. It is our stance that the use of such evidence, the use of the lived-experiences of all complainants to NHS Trusts and to the PHSO, when viewed together show the endemic and systematic strategy and culture being employed within the NHS. The NHS, in this context being the "defendant", rather than an individual clinician, or even a specific NHS Trust.
It is evident that the strategies employed across the board, across all NHS Trusts can be evidenced, both as relevant and probative, when looking at the approach and strategy being taken when dealing with complaints.
Taken purely in isolation, the patient / complainant finds themselves trying to battle and argue their position against an organisation, with almost limitless legal resources and financial support. As such, in isolation the singular complainant is at a distinct disadvantage, even before the rules of engagement that are set by the NHS Trusts is taken into consideration.
However, when similar fact evidence is considered, the lack of independence, and favourable strategies employed can be seen for what they are. Unfair, dishonest and unaccountable. These values should be inherent and key to all investigations into complaints.
All of these guidelines seem to go against the lived-experience of the contributors to this group, and the ethos that is portrayed by the NHS Trust complaints process.
What benefits will an Independent NHS Complaints Service bring?
What are the benefits of an Independent Complaints Group?
Highlighting the significance of establishing an Independent Complaints Group for effective conflict resolution.Explore the advantages of establishing an Independent Complaints Group for better accountability.
We have looked at the current system. We have identified where they may be flaws and issues, that make the current system far from ideal. We have established fundamental principles that need to implemented to ensure a fair, honest and accountable system, that is robust and functions as intended.
We are suggesting that fully independent Complaints Group covering the NHS, would inherently  be much closer to the intended fair and just system. But what are the full suite of benefits a new independent system could bring?
The obvious and most powerful benefit is the ability to provide a fair, honest and accountable investigation into complaints made by patients.
By installing an independent investigation process, the Trust will be unable to mislead or dismiss the genuine issues being raised by patients. The patients will be empowered in knowing they are being taken seriously, and the issues raised will be looked into thoroughly.
The independence removes the issues of cognitive bias or unconscious bias, and allows clinical staff to remain doing the job they applied for and are paid to be doing.
The implications of having a truly independent investigation will also influence the culture and philosophy within the NHS. There has been well-documented cases where whistle-blowers have either not come forward, or their warnings or concerns not been heeded. By knowing there is a team of independent, knowledgeable staff doing these investigations will naturally impact on the willingness and voice of these moral staff members, who want to highlight their own concerns.
As whistleblowing is reaching the public consciousness, moves such as this to encourage and make those considering highlighting their concerns, must be taken. The patients have a very distinct perspective of their treatment and experiences within the NHS. It is unique and should be listened to, as a vital learning tool. Staff will have a separate and different perspective, one of training, knowledge and experience. To encourage a culture of growth and continual improvement, BOTH parties must be heard. By introducing an independent  National Complaints Group, it would be striding forward to achieve this goal.
With the improvement and culture changes, would come the improvement of services, and the ability to deliver better care, more efficiently. In turn, this could lead to reduced waiting times through efficiency, no loss of staff undertaking investigations, for example, and with the increase in implementing improvements and encouragement and actions from internal whistleblowing, it would inevitably lead to the reduction of claims when things were going wrong. Inevitably this would lead to greater confidence and status and reputation of our NHS and cut the substantial annual costs to the NHS of compensation and legal costs.
At present, the NHS Trusts only have to cover the staffing costs for their Complaints. The set up when it comes to Legal fees and compensation claims, is funded by an “internal insurance scheme”. It is our understanding that ALL NHS Trust opt into the annual fess paid to NHS Resolutions. Similar to car or house insurance, the Trust pays an annual “fee”, the premium calculated by NHS Resolutions, for which all subsequent legal costs and compensation costs are borne by NHS Resolutions. It is therefore only a matter of the annual adjustment in these opted in insurance premiums to NHS Resolutions that will be of any consequence to the Trusts, and not the bottom-line costs of these fees.
Of course, any subsequent reduction in compensation claims and legal fees, may have a huge impact on the budget for the NHS as a whole. More money could be funnelled into staffing or capital projects, effectively getting more for your money, and thus a clear benefit to all taxpayers.
PHSO - The Facts - Monitoring the PHSO since 2013
Members of PHSOtheFACTS have been monitoring the work of the Ombudsman since 2013. We act as a support group and information service. We hope you will be fully informed of how the Ombudsman really works and why it fails to deliver justice and closure.
LATEST PHSO STATS FOR 2022/23 ANALYSED
The Keeping the NHS Honest Campaign look into the latest published statistics released by the PHSO. The numbers don't lie - and they make for painful and extremely concerning reading.
Patient Lives Matter
Please take a look at our member Jay's website, in honour of his son Balram Patel, where they tell his story.
Petition for Balram by Jay Patel
Please take a moment to sign this petition their petitions - click below....
A ‘brilliant’ young man could have been saved....
Please read this story about the tragedy of Johnny, the son of one of our member.
Further details following the inquiry into Johnny's death, highlighting critical errors. Please click below......
Introduction of Martha's Rule - Impact by Julie Alfrey
Please take a moment to read this new article published by the Manchester Evening News (MEN) that discusses the recently introduced Martha's Rule - where a second opinion can be requested when circumstances change.
Our Julie Alfrey is interviewed for this article.
The campaign for Robbie's Law - A Legal Duty of Candor
“As the law stands now in 2023, doctors have no duty to give parents of a child who died as a result of their negligence a truthful account of the circumstances of the death, nor even to refrain from deliberately falsifying records.” This MUST be changed. Honest.Fair.Accountable
Name (*required)
Message (*required)
Contact Us
Legal Disclaimer
This website has been created and run by a group of concerned patients, following their own experiences navigating the NHS Complaints process. Any statements made within the website do not necessarily constitute the views of all parties. Any references to individuals, patients NHS Staff, NHS Trusts or any other parties, is done so following the submission of the narrative within the names are mentioned, by a contributory source. The website accepts these submissions as being honest, fair and accurate, and requests that the source of such statements has sufficient proof of any statement made, that they believe at the time of writing that the statements made are true. The website, therefore, will not accept any liability for perceived defamation whatsoever, and publishes statements in good faith. Names of individuals used in any article may have been changed to provide anonymity to those individuals where this information may be detrimental to them, i.e. with an ongoing Complaint or legal case.
Keeping the NHS Honest
