News & Media
Northeast Florida Association of REALTORS, or more commonly known locally as NEFAR (Nē-Far), is the largest professional trade association in the region and the fourth largest REALTOR association in the state of Florida boasting more than 12,000 members. NEFAR provides professional development, political advocacy, professional standards administration, media relations, promotional activities, and social engagement for its members. For over 110 years, NEFAR has been dedicated to serving REALTORS and the community. We are the voice for real estate in Northeast Florida.
Learn More About NEFAR
Join NEFAR Today!
Join NEFAR Today!
A REALTOR’s Best Investment
The REALTOR Party, unique in its sole focus on advocating for future homeowners and the real estate industry in America, plays a crucial role in safeguarding the interests of REALTORS and their businesses. Through the Realtors Political Action Committee (RPAC), it identifies and supports candidates at local, state, and national levels who align with Realtor interests in promoting and protecting the real estate industry and private property rights.
A real estate class for everyone
NEFAR offers a wide array of classroom and online education courses to keep you abreast of current real estate knowledge and trends. Many courses provide continuing education credit. Designation and certification courses hone your specialized skills and knowledge and help position you in front of the competition. Pre- and post-licensing courses are also available for both agents and brokers. Whether the class is taught virtually or in person, students can trust that their instructor is well-seasoned in real estate and an expert in the field. All teachers are highly trained professionals, and many are members of Florida Realtors’ faculty.
Explore
NEFAR offers many ways to get involved and make a difference
Engage with our diverse councils and specialty groups, hosting monthly events from networking to educational sessions. Volunteer on a committee or task force, or elevate your leadership through the NEFAR Leadership Academy, preparing you for key roles within the association and your career. Join the EDGE Professional Society to showcase your dedication to excellence. Additionally, nominate deserving peers for a NEFAR award to recognize their efforts, enhancing your professional journey and strengthening our real estate community.
Explore
REALTORS are very generous with their time, talent, and treasure, especially when it comes to serving the Northeast Florida community.
Explore
$ 0 +
NEFAR members volunteered their time to NEFAR Community Affairs Task Force projects in 2023
0
October 4, 2024
September 11, 2024
What Is A REALTOR?
All real estate professionals are licensed  agents or brokers, but a REALTOR is truly a cut above the rest.
How REALTORS Help
11 ways REALTORS help their clients and over 185 specific ways they assist throughout the entire transaction.
Choosing A REALTOR
With so many options how do you choose? Search for a REALTOR the same way you would hire someone for a job.
2024 NEFAR Annual Sponsors
Questions? Need help? Call us at (904) 394-9494 or visit one of our service centers.
The Resource Center (Main Office)
NEFAR office closures
