By
Hot 97’s “On Da Reggae Tip Live” at Hammerstein Ballroom on Friday night, September 2, 2005.This image:Vybz Kartel. (Photo by Hiroyuki Ito/Getty Images)
After serving 13 years behind bars, Vybz Kartel was released from prison this summer. Since his release, Kartel wasted no time resuming his music career and reconnecting with his family. While his release has generated significant excitement, HotNewHipHop reports growing concerns about the dancehall star’s health.
Kartel has been diagnosed with Graves’ disease, an autoimmune disorder, along with a preexisting heart condition. In a Fox 5 News report, his lawyer, Isat Buchanan, voiced how he was “fighting for his life” and was in terrible shape while in prison. Now that he is free, his fans are urging him to prioritize his well-being above all else.
Read Next
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA – MARCH 03: Jamie Foxx accepts the Producers Award onstage during the AAFCA Special Achievement Honorees Luncheon at The Los Angeles Athletic Club on March 03, 2024 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Kayla Oaddams/Getty Images)
Fortunately, it seems Kartel is making strides in that direction. In a recent episode of All Things Keyshia Ka’oir, he shared updates regarding his efforts to enhance health. He revealed that he is collaborating with leading medical professionals from Jamaica, Cuba, and St. Vincent. He also mentioned that his condition has improved since his time in prison and that he is currently seeking a visa to pursue further treatment in the U.S.
While fans may be relieved to hear that Kartel is under the care of top professionals, this isn’t the first time they’ve been updated about his health journey in recent months. Back in August, he stated that his top priority was to regain his health. He stated, “Just finished my morning workout […] I can’t overdo it yet […] You know what I say, fitness and family? That’s the greatest.”
Read Next
INDIANAPOLIS, IN – FEBRUARY 03:  (L-R) Rapper’s Drake and J. Cole attend First Down Friday at Sensu on February 3, 2012 in Indianapolis, Indiana.  (Photo by Johnny Nunez/WireImage/Getty Images)
Comment *
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
Now Trending
News
NEW YORK, NEW YORK – OCTOBER 11: Cardi B attends her birthday party at The Duke on October 11, 2024 in New York City. (Photo by Johnny Nunez/WireImage)
News
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA – MARCH 16: Halle Bailey and DDG attend the 55th NAACP Image Awards at Shrine Auditorium and Expo Hall on March 16, 2024 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Kayla Oaddams/FilmMagic)
News
NEW YORK, NEW YORK – MAY 06: Stefon Diggs attends The 2024 Met Gala Celebrating “Sleeping Beauties: Reawakening Fashion” at The Metropolitan Museum of Art on May 06, 2024 in New York City. (Photo by Dia Dipasupil/Getty Images)
News
LONDON, ENGLAND – SEPTEMBER 16: Rihanna arriving at Selfridges for her Fenty Hair launch party on September 16, 2024 in London, England. (Photo by Neil Mockford/GC Images/ Getty Images)
VIP ONLY ACCESS
Are you a HOT 97 VIP?  Unlock exclusive, VIP Only access to the latest news, offers, contests, events, and more.  There is no cost to join for a limited time.
Email(Required)
Δ
