‘They Can Control the Weather,’ Claims Marjorie Taylor Greene After Deadly Hurricane Helene Kills More Than 200
By Charlie Nash,
10 days ago
Angelina Katsanis/POLITICO via AP Images
Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA) weighed in on the deadly hurricane which wreaked havoc in her state of Georgia and across the southern United States on Thursday, suggesting that the hurricane had been controlled.
After the Hurricane Helene death toll rose to over 200, Greene wrote in a social media post, “Yes they can control the weather. It’s ridiculous for anyone to lie and say it can’t be done.”
Greene also posted a map of the areas most affected by the hurricane overlaid with an electoral map by political party.
“This is a map of hurricane affected areas with an overlay of electoral map by political party shows how hurricane devastation could affect the election,” she warned.
Following her election to Congress in 2020, Greene received criticism over previous comments she had made suggesting the wildfires in California had been started by space lasers connected to the wealthy Rothschild family.
Greene’s remarks came to be known as the “Jewish Space Laser” remarks – despite the congresswoman never using those exact words – and Greene went on to capitalize on the controversy earlier this year when she filed an amendment to an Israel aid bill proposing that funds “be used for the development of space laser technology on the southwest border.”
Have a tip for us? tips@mediaite.com
Expand All
Reply
0
Reply
0
Local News
BroBible4 days ago
M Henderson10 days ago
CNN1 day ago
Mediaite2 days ago
Herbie J Pilato3 days ago
Mediaite2 days ago
the-independent.com7 days ago
Mediaite2 days ago
André Emilio18 days ago
Arizona Luminaria23 days ago
WyoFile13 days ago
Bucks County Beacon21 hours ago
J. Souza3 days ago
Uncovering Florida16 days ago
Bryce Gruber5 days ago
Uncovering Florida20 days ago
Mediaite2 days ago
Mediaite1 day ago
David Heitz26 days ago
Get
Email
Subscribe
By signing up for our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy .
It’s essential to note our commitment to transparency: Our Terms of Use acknowledge that our services may not always be error-free, and our Community Standards emphasize our discretion in enforcing policies. As a platform hosting over 100,000 pieces of content published daily, we cannot pre-vet content, but we strive to foster a dynamic environment for free expression and robust discourse through safety guardrails of human and AI moderation.
Comments / 0
