2024 NDPRO /New Balance Regional Basketball Championship
June 14-15, 2025
June 14-15, 2025
CONGRATULATIONS to our
17U/16U - Impact 15U
15U - NDPro 2027
The 2024's went 3-1 at the NDPro Regional Championship.
2029's Champions at Summer Jam
The 2029's went 4-0 at the Summer Jam.
2023's Champions at Summer Finale
The 2023's ended their season on quite a run. 12 - 4 in July.  4-1 at Mill City, 2-3 at Summer Jam, and 6-0 at Summer Finale in Des Moines.
2024 Champions at Summer Jam
Champions
Champions
Champions
2020 Nike TOC Champions - NDPRO 2022
2022's go 7-0 in Des Moines, Iowa to win the Nike Tournament of Champions.
Champions
2021's wins Pentagon Summer Classic
NDPRO 2021 defeat MN Basketball Academy Brown 41-32 to win the 11th grade division at the Pentagon Summer Classic.
Fargo Sports Complex NDPro Video
Director Tim jacobson and former player lexi klabo
Designate NDPro as your organization when you donate to the Fargo Sports Complex
Why NDPRO
NDPRO DIRECTOR/COACH
Coach Jacobson is NDPRO Director and Coach. Under his leadership, NDPRO has grown from one team to a program ranging from 6th grade to the Elite Juniors of North and South Dakota and western Minnesota.
NDPRO's Mission
The mission of NDPRO is to field competitive youth basketball teams that focus on skill development, preparation, competing at an Elite High School and Middle School level. NDPRO provides high level off-season practices and tournaments to build basketball skills. We stress working hard and having fun while encouraging sportsmanship and teamwork at the optimal level to prepare our players for high school or college basketball.
High Level of Coaching
NDPRO has some of the most accomplished basketball coaches in the mid-west, from college coaches to high school coaches who are multiple state champions. All our coaches have one goal, to help build smart, hard working basketball players. Please see our COACHES page to learn more.
Great Teamates
The NDPRO staff does a great job of building a culture of leadership that fosters life long friendships. These leaders help push each other to new heights. Through fierce competition, some of the strongest bonds are formed. NDPRO players dominate the year end All-conference, All-section, All-state, and All-tournament selections as well as Miss Basketball winners.
"Favorite part of playing NDPRO has been playing good basketball and I love going places and being with the team and doing all the fun stuff with them."
"We enjoy the tournaments that give us a different playing experience and the relationships we have made by playing with different teammates.- GO PRO."
"My favorite part was getting the chance to play with people from all over ND and MN and just getting to play basketball against teams from all over."
NDPRO Players in the Premier Mid-West  Tournaments
Tartan Battle on the Hardwood
Xplosion
Preparing Players for College Basketball
NDPRO takes great pride in helping our players achieve their dreams of playing college basketball. There are currently fourty former NDPRO players playing college basketball. NDPRO has helped prepare many players get to the college level and succeed. We are very proud of our NDPRO Alumni... please check out all the former NDPRO players that have or are still playing in college on our ALUMNI page.
Commitment
NDPRO is committed to taking your game to the next level by fostering the growth of leadership, skills, total knowledge, and passion for the game, in all our players.
Contact Us
Send Message
Name
Email*
Send
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
NDPRO basketball
