The store will not work correctly in the case when cookies are disabled.
This extension allows attaching additional information such as manuals, warranty, recipes, etc. in different formats (PDF, JPG, ZIP, etc.) to the product page.
Compatibility
This extension allows attaching additional information such as manuals, warranty, recipes, etc. in different formats (PDF, JPG, ZIP, etc.) to the product page.
Key Features
Option to enable/disable the extension as per store
Option to attach different types of files (pdf, jpg, png, doc, zip, etc.)
Option to configure attachment labels
Feature Highlights
Product Attachment
With this extension, store admin can attach/upload different file types to provide additional information about the product. And user can view and download the attachment from the tab of the product page.
Installation
1. Download the extension .zip file and extract the files. 2. Copy the files from "src/" folder to the "{magento2-root-dir}/app/code/MagePsycho/ProductAttachment" folder (create non-existing folders manually). 3. Run the following series of command from SSH console of your server:
php bin/magento module:enable MagePsycho_ProductAttachment --clear-static-content
php bin/magento setup:upgrade
php bin/magento cache:flush
rm -rf pub/static/* var/view_preprocessed/*
php bin/magento setup:static-content:deploy
5. Go to Admin > CATALOG > Product Attachment > Manage Settings
How can I pay for MagePsycho extensions?
We only support PayPal for now. The other means are under processing.
If I buy an extension, how would I get it?
After you make a purchase, the order will appear in the "My Orders" section of your personal account page.
As soon as the order status becomes completed the purchased extensions can be downloaded from "My Downloads" section.
How can I get the license key(s) for the purchased extension?
The license key(s) are sent along with the invoice email. In case if you have't received any license key(s), please Contact Us with the order #.
Are your extensions open source or encrypted?
All of our extensions are developed on the open source platform.
Do you provide Magento customization service?
Yes, sure, we can help you with customization. Please, submit the Request Quote form.
Can I get a refund if an extension doesn’t suit me?
Absolutely. MagePsycho provides a 30-day money back guarantee. So feel free to purchase.
After 30 days from the date of purchase, the refund is not applied. You also cannot ask for a refund for the installation service or custom service.
If you are looking for a specific solution for your store, please Contact Us .
Can I request a free trial?
MagePsycho doesn’t provide any trials. But we have a 30 days money back guarantee. But if you buy an extension and it doesn’t suit you in any way, you can request a refund with no risks on your side. Moreover, most of our extensions have demos, where you can see how our modules work.
What is the license policy? On how many websites can I use MagePsycho extensions?
Our license allows you to use in a single domain but an unlimited number of sub-domains. In the case of additional licenses, we do provide a good discount.
Will I get free support and updates?
You will get free lifetime updates for extensions purchased from us.
Write Your Own Review
You May Also Like
$75.00
Regular Price $75.00 Special Price $55.00
$75.00
$75.00
Regular Price $75.00 Special Price $55.00
(also get $10 in your next order)
Newsletter
Subscribe
Connect with us
Proud member of
We accept
