Share this post
SpaceX Engineer In North Carolina Has Dire Warning: Criminal Biden-Harris' FEMA "Actively Blocking Shipments" For Relief
tuzarapost.substack.com
Facebook
Email
Note
Other
SpaceX Engineer In North Carolina Has Dire Warning: Criminal Biden-Harris' FEMA "Actively Blocking Shipments" For Relief
“FEMA is not merely failing to adequately help people in trouble but is actively blocking citizens who try to help!” because they’re Trump supporters.
SpaceX Engineer In North Carolina Has Dire Warning: Criminal Biden-Harris' FEMA "Actively Blocking Shipments" For Relief
tuzarapost.substack.com
A shocking firsthand account from a SpaceX engineer in storm-battered North Carolina reveals that Biden-Harris’ Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) blocked shipments of critical goods for relief efforts into the region.
There have been numerous reports this week of FEMA actively hindering relief efforts in the western part of the state, including threatening private helicopter pilots with arrests for conducting rescue missions.
We also learned that the fraudulent Biden-Harris administration drained FEMA funds to support illegal aliens, prioritizing non-citizens (future voters) over American citizens.
Around lunchtime, Elon Musk shared a dire message from one of his SpaceX engineers on the ground in the storm-ravaged state.
Musk said, “FEMA is not merely failing to adequately help people in trouble, but is actively blocking citizens who try to help!”
Musk shared a dire warning from one of his engineers on the ground:
More from Musk.
Radio transmissions from first responders in Mecklenburg County provided firsthand accounts of the government blocking relief efforts by private citizens.
This is disturbing.
Americans quickly understood by the end of the week the big theme in Biden-Harris' botched hurricane response efforts, very similar to the dismal response in East Palestine, Ohio, as explained by The Bishop of Mises Institute:
"This horrific natural disaster is a reminder of the extent to which the regime [Biden-Harris] hates the people who live there."
Folks were even more shocked when the US Homeland Security secretary warned that FEMA funds were running dry for hurricane disaster funding.
This is because the criminal Biden-Harris team diverted $1.4 billion to address the migrant crisis they helped create through open southern border policies.
Prepper All Naturals on the ground
A group of citizen responders from Prepper All Naturals - a veteran-owned emergency food company which delivered $60,000 of meat and arranged for sanitary stations - reports that the scene is chaotic and unmanaged by FEMA.
"Things here are far worse than expected, or that is being reported. I won’t go into detail on the deaths. Too gruesome. There will also be more out there, especially in the remote places that will starve or die from disease," said team lead Scotty Clay.
"Search and Rescue Team here this morning. The team in our vicinity found 135 dead yesterday. The death toll will be bad. Many were way up high in the trees."
"The damage is unprecedented. Many places look like a nuclear war zone, with more than I could count (e.g., fire stations) just totally washed away. Nothing but dirt left."
Even before the storm was churning in the Gulf of Mexico, the Biden-Harris administration of far-left radicals weaponized the FCC against Musk and blocked Starlink from a rural federal contract that would've supplied the state with 20,000 terminals . If these terminals had been active ahead of the storm and during its early days, they could've saved lives.
Criminal Biden-Harris' FCC Nuked 20,000 Starlink Terminals For North Carolina That Could've Saved Lives
On Monday, the North Carolina State Climate Office said Hurricane Helene was a "monster storm" that unleashed every "worst-case scenario" for western North Carolina.
Ashville Mayor Esther Manheimer told CNN's The Source with Kaitlan Collins on Monday that over 600 people are unaccounted for.
Some towns have been wiped off the map after torrential rains dumped from Helene unleashed 'biblical' floods.
The Southeast should identify as 'Ukraine'...
… to get the proper response from White House officials who despise those living in the Southeast because they’re Trump supporters.
Here’s what X users are saying:
READ MORE:
Share or comment on this article.
Your support is crucial in exposing fake news and in helping us defeat mass censorship.
SpaceX Engineer In North Carolina Has Dire Warning: Criminal Biden-Harris' FEMA "Actively Blocking Shipments" For Relief
tuzarapost.substack.com
Expand full comment
Expand full comment
Share
