About Zscaler
Serving thousands of enterprise customers around the world including 40% of Fortune 500 companies, Zscaler (NASDAQ: ZS) was founded in 2007 with a mission to make the cloud a safe place to do business and a more enjoyable experience for enterprise users. As the operator of the world’s largest security cloud, Zscaler accelerates digital transformation so enterprises can be more agile, efficient, resilient, and secure. The pioneering, AI-powered Zscaler Zero Trust Exchange™ platform protects thousands of enterprise customers from cyberattacks and data loss by securely connecting users, devices, and applications in any location.
Named a Best Workplace in Technology by Fortune and others, Zscaler fosters an inclusive and supportive culture that is home to some of the brightest minds in the industry. If you thrive in an environment that is fast-paced and collaborative, and you are passionate about building and innovating for the greater good, come make your next move with Zscaler.
Our Engineering team built the world's largest cloud security platform from the ground up, and we keep building. With more than 100 patents and big plans for enhancing services and increasing our global footprint, the team has made us and our multitenant architecture today's cloud security leader, with more than 15 million users in 185 countries. Bring your vision and passion to our team of cloud architects, software engineers, security experts, and more who are enabling organizations worldwide to harness speed and agility with a cloud-first strategy.
The Cloud Ops team keeps the engines running at our best. On any given day, the Zscaler cloud processes tens of billions of transactions — scanning a petabyte of data — for 15 million users around the world. The transaction volume on the Zscaler cloud is growing every quarter, yet the cloud's overall stability just continues to improve, and that is directly attributable to the Cloud Ops team's deep expertise and its diligence to availability, and scalability.
You will report to the Manager Network Engineering.
Responsibilities:
You will work with a team of engineers and will deploy, operating, monitoring, and supporting the network infrastructures inside multiple datacentres.
You will be involved in high severity / critical incident as the L3 technical escalation contact.
You will conduct peer review (4-Eye check) on the configuration/ change script to ensure the changes are valid.
Provide technical guidance to the team on Network technical domain.
You must participate in on-call rotation.
What We're Looking for (Minimum Qualifications)
Bachelor's degree in engineering or equivalent experience.
U.S. citizenship is required for this position due to the nature of the customers assigned to this role.
Experience working with ticketing and inventory systems in remote Data Center operations.
6+ years of experience on high-speed copper and fiber Ethernet switch network. Layer-2 spanning-tree protocols, and Layer-3 BGP protocols.
Hands-on experience in BGP routing operation, design, and troubleshooting in both IPv4 and IPv6 for large-scale Enterprise networks or Telecom networks.
What Will Make You Stand Out (Preferred Qualifications)
Experience in IP-packet analysis by using WireShark.
Knowledge of DNS, HTTPS, GRE, and IPsec protocols with hands-on troubleshooting experience.
Experience on Linux/Unix, and Network equipment and the tasks they perform. Familiar with Unix Shell scripts and CCNP, JNCIP related certification classes.
#LI-Remote
#LI-CM3
Zscaler’s salary ranges are benchmarked and are determined by role and level. The range displayed on each job posting reflects the minimum and maximum target for new hire salaries for the position across all US locations and could be higher or lower based on a multitude of factors, including job-related skills, experience, and relevant education or training.
The base salary range listed for this full-time position excludes commission/ bonus/ equity (if applicable) + benefits.
Base Pay Range
$115,500—$165,000 USD
At Zscaler, we believe that diversity drives innovation, productivity, and success. We are looking for individuals from all backgrounds and identities to join our team and contribute to our mission to make doing business seamless and secure. We are guided by these principles as we create a representative and impactful team, and a culture where everyone belongs. For more information on our commitments to Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging, visit the Corporate Responsibility page of our website.
Our Benefits program is one of the most important ways we support our employees. Zscaler proudly offers comprehensive and inclusive benefits to meet the diverse needs of our employees and their families throughout their life stages, including:
Various health plans
Parental leave options
In-office perks, and more!
By applying for this role, you adhere to applicable laws, regulations, and Zscaler policies, including those related to security and privacy standards and guidelines.
Zscaler is proud to be an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. We celebrate diversity and are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all of our employees. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy or related medical conditions), age, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, genetic information, disability status, protected veteran status or any other characteristics protected by federal, state, or local laws.
Pay Transparency
Zscaler complies with all applicable federal, state, and local pay transparency rules. For additional information about the federal requirements, click here .
Zscaler is committed to providing reasonable support (called accommodations or adjustments) in our recruiting processes for candidates who are differently abled, have long term conditions, mental health conditions or sincerely held religious beliefs, or who are neurodivergent or require pregnancy-related support.
Apply for this Job
Cover Letter
Website
How did you learn about this job? *
If you selected Other please tell us how you learned about this job.
Do you have the legal right to work in the country where you are applying to work? *
Do you require a work permit, visa or additional right to work support for the country where you are applying to work? *
If yes, please advise what support is needed:
In what city and state is your primary residence? (e.g. San Jose, CA) *
Do you currently work for, or have you previously worked for Zscaler? *
Current Company *
Current Title *
Zscaler Confidential Information *
In consideration of Zscaler, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries (together referred to as “Zscaler”) granting the opportunity to apply for a position with Zscaler, I agree (a) to use Confidential Information for the sole purpose of evaluating a position with Zscaler, (b) that I will not disclose Confidential Information to anyone outside of Zscaler, (c) that all Confidential Information disclosed by Zscaler (and any derivative works thereof) remains the property of Zscaler, and no license or other rights to Confidential Information is granted or implied, (d) not to use the systems of my current employer to access any Confidential Information or download any Confidential Information onto the systems of my current employer, (e) immediately upon request, to return or destroy all the embodiments and copies of any Confidential Information, and (f) that “Confidential Information” means any nonpublic information disclosed to me by Zscaler, which Zscaler labels or otherwise identifies as confidential or a reasonable person would understand to be confidential.
I Agree
Zscaler Privacy Policy *
By proceeding with your application or engaging in the recruitment process with you acknowledge that we will collect, use, and store your personal information in accordance with the data privacy notice linked below. Should you have any concerns or questions about how your personal data is handled, please don't hesitate to reach out to privacy@zscaler.com .
For government reporting purposes, we ask candidates to respond to the below self-identification survey.
Completion of the form is entirely voluntary. Whatever your decision, it will not be considered in the hiring
process or thereafter. Any information that you do provide will be recorded and maintained in a
confidential file.
As set forth in Zscaler’s Equal Employment Opportunity policy,
we do not discriminate on the basis of any protected group status under any applicable law.
Gender *
If you believe you belong to any of the categories of protected veterans listed below, please indicate by making the appropriate selection.
  As a government contractor subject to the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act (VEVRAA), we request this information in order to measure
  the effectiveness of the outreach and positive recruitment efforts we undertake pursuant to VEVRAA. Classification of protected categories
  is as follows:
A "disabled veteran" is one of the following: a veteran of the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service who is entitled to compensation (or who but for the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or a person who was discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected disability.
A "recently separated veteran" means any veteran during the three-year period beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service.
An "active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran" means a veteran who served on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized under the laws administered by the Department of Defense.
An "Armed forces service medal veteran" means a veteran who, while serving on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service, participated in a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985.
Veteran Status *
Why are you being asked to complete this form?
We are a federal contractor or subcontractor. The law requires us to provide equal employment opportunity to qualified people with disabilities. We have a goal of having at least 7% of our workers as people with disabilities. The law says we must measure our progress towards this goal. To do this, we must ask applicants and employees if they have a disability or have ever had one. People can become disabled, so we need to ask this question at least every five years.
Completing this form is voluntary, and we hope that you will choose to do so. Your answer is confidential. No one who makes hiring decisions will see it. Your decision to complete the form and your answer will not harm you in any way. If you want to learn more about the law or this form, visit the U.S. Department of Labor’s Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) website at www.dol.gov/ofccp .
How do you know if you have a disability?
A disability is a condition that substantially limits one or more of your “major life activities.” If you have or have ever had such a condition, you are a person with a disability. Disabilities include, but are not limited to:
Alcohol or other substance use disorder (not currently using drugs illegally)
Autoimmune disorder, for example, lupus, fibromyalgia, rheumatoid arthritis, HIV/AIDS
Blind or low vision
Cancer (past or present)
Cardiovascular or heart disease
Diabetes
Disfigurement, for example, disfigurement caused by burns, wounds, accidents, or congenital disorders
Epilepsy or other seizure disorder
Gastrointestinal disorders, for example, Crohn's Disease, irritable bowel syndrome
Intellectual or developmental disability
Missing limbs or partially missing limbs
Mobility impairment, benefiting from the use of a wheelchair, scooter, walker, leg brace(s) and/or other supports
Nervous system condition, for example, migraine headaches, Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis (MS)
Neurodivergence, for example, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism spectrum disorder, dyslexia, dyspraxia, other learning disabilities
Partial or complete paralysis (any cause)
Pulmonary or respiratory conditions, for example, tuberculosis, asthma, emphysema
Short stature (dwarfism)
Traumatic brain injury
Disability Status *
PUBLIC BURDEN STATEMENT: According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 no persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless such collection displays a valid OMB control number. This survey should take about 5 minutes to complete.
Enter the verification code sent to to confirm you are not a robot, then submit your application.
Security Code *
This application was flagged as potential bot traffic. To resubmit your application, turn off any VPNs, clear the browser's cache and cookies, or try another browser. If you still can't submit it, contact our support team through the help center .
Powered by
