Adam delivers for our Conservative Warren County Values
We live, work, and play here and know our values work well.
Adam will continue to work for you to protect and promote our way of life in the Statehouse
so we can enjoy our families here.
I am humbled and honored to be endorsed by the above organizations, as well as countless Republican Leaders within Warren County.
Adam wins for Warren County
In his first term in the Statehouse, Adam introduced and passed legislation to cut taxes by $2.2B, increase transparency for college funding, allow Safe Haven Baby Boxes, and expand concealed carry.
On top of that, Adam was crucial in keeping the Western & Southern Open to stay in Warren County for the next 25 years.
Now, he's working to eliminate the state income tax and unleash our energy and small business sectors.
Pro-Life and Pro-Family
Adam has championed legislation to keep men out of girls' sports and to protect children from harmful gender surgeries, even writing in National Review for the need to override the Governor's veto.
Adam is Pro-Life, without exceptions, from conception to natural death and has worked within the government and the non-profit realm to promote the culture of life. He is the ONLY candidate in the race endorsed by Ohio Right to Life.
At Ohio Right to Life's request, Adam testified in favor of the pro-life bill preparing Ohio to be ready for a post-Roe v. Wade world. As board chair for one of the country's largest network of pro-life women's centers, Adam has helped empower mothers and families to make godly life choices, providing free diapers, cribs, and other essentials. He has been honored with Cincinnati Right to Life's annual Warrior for Life award and currently continues to further the pro-life mission as in-house counsel for Heartbeat International, a worldwide pregnancy resource organization.
Pro-Liberty
Adam believes the government should be bound by our Constitutions and laws. We need to strengthen the State Legislature against overreach, especially when it interferes with our schools, businesses, and daily lives. Decision-making should be as local as possible, ideally down to the individual and municipal levels.
He has worked to protect free and fair elections, serving multiple times as a Presidential Election Day Attorney.  As a board member of the Cincinnati area Federalist Society, Adam has promoted originalist and textualist legal thinking, where the law should mean what it says and not bend to the whims of judges or politics.
Adam fully supports the right to keep and bear arms, sponsoring and passing legislation to expand CCW rights as both a state representative and a city councilman. Adam is a CCW holder himself and a multi-year member of the NRA and the Buckeye Firearms Association. He has the highest ratings for a candidate from the NRA and Buckeye Firearms. For his work and support, Adam is an NRA 2022 Defender of Freedom Award winner.
Pro-Pursuit of Happiness
The goal of a small government is to allow each of our citizens "a life of quiet enjoyment." We Ohioans have the right to go about our lives taking care of our families and our communities, free from overbearing taxes and regulations. Adam will work to continue to lower taxes and government spending. As Vice Mayor, Adam sponsored budgets retiring millions of dollars of debt and saving taxpayers when it matters most.
On council, Adam found creative ways to provide support to our communities through the government-forced shutdowns in response to the coronavirus. With the help of many others, Adam kept our Independence Day parade going and in partnership with civic organizations like our Chamber of Commerce and Main Street Lebanon, created outdoor dining with no additional taxpayer expense.
Paid for by Friends of Adam Mathews
Google Sites
Report abuse
Page details
Page updated
Google Sites
Report abuse
