Primary Menu
In collaboration with CoSpaces Edu, All opinions are my own
Now that the school year is in full swing and we head into the fall of 2024, many educators are coming up for air and looking for new ideas. For me, it’s always the perfect time to consider how our year has started and look for ways to introduce fun, innovative ideas to our classrooms to boost engagement even more! What I love about technology, is that there is always a way to bring it into our classrooms for our students, and that is what I have found with CoSpaces Edu!
Whether you’re teaching elementary, middle, or high school, focused on STEM, language arts, or any other subject, we know there is an increasing need to equip our students with skills to be successful in the future. In my opinion, I think what better way to do that than with CoSpaces Edu!
CoSpaces Edu is a versatile, very user-friendly platform that brings learning to life for our students. Through augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), with a variety of wonderful features that enable students to engage in 3D creation, coding, and collaboration, CoSpaces Edu can be integrated across all grade levels and subject areas. I have come up with six ideas for getting started with CoSpaces Edu in your classroom this fall. At all grade levels, you can foster creativity, critical thinking, communication, collaboration, and digital literacy—skills, all of which are essential for today’s learners.
1. Virtual Tour of Student Interests
One of the easiest and most engaging ways to get started with CoSpaces Edu, which I use every year, is having my students explore its gallery of available projects. Whether they’re in elementary school or high school, students absolutely love the time they have to explore existing projects such as games and virtual museums. By giving them time to explore, not only can it boost their own creativity, but it also helps us learn more about their interests, which is essential.
How to start? Direct them to the gallery and ask them to choose a project or space they find interesting. After exploring, ask them to consider why it captured their attention. Was it the design? The characters? The actual activity itself? Encourage them to think critically about what they might create or how they might change or enhance what they explored. For example, if they enjoyed exploring a historical simulation, maybe they can build their own historical event space or propose redesigning a famous historical space. Moving through in this way not only fosters critical thinking but encourages student discussion, idea sharing, and brainstorming ideas. And the best part is that CoSpaces Edu allows them to explore both virtual and augmented reality so they can fully immerse themselves in and connect with the content they’re learning.
I have used this activity as an icebreaker for new school years or any time throughout the year. It benefits by giving students the opportunity to explore, discover, and connect with their classmates over shared interests that they may not have realized they had in common. Talk about fostering a real learning community!
2. Create an “About Me” Space
Every new school year, educators spend time finding ways to get to know their students better and for students to get to know each other. A new idea is to have students create an interactive “About Me” space. Not sure where to begin? CoSpaces Edu has a ready-to-use template that students can then customize and add fun characters, animations, and even their voice recordings to create a virtual introduction to themselves.
This activity is more than just fun—it builds digital literacy as students learn to manipulate 3D objects and text and even dive into coding. It’s a great way to build a learning community in the classroom as students explore each other’s spaces, and you will see the excitement as they learn from each other. You can easily adapt this project to any grade level. It is also a great way to introduce younger students to AR and VR in a structured way while also allowing older students to dive more into basic block-based CoBlocks or advanced coding with JavaScript.
My students have had a blast designing their virtual world to represent themselves. The About Me is a great way to spark creativity and help students develop essential communication skills as they express interests, hobbies, and goals with their classmates and teachers.
3. Interactive Storytelling in Virtual Worlds
Storytelling is an impactful way to promote learning whether you teach elementary or high school students. Now, students can bring their stories to life in immersive 3D environments with CoSpaces Edu!
In my STEAM course, I work with the other content area teachers to have students leverage what we are learning and connect it to their other classes. Students have created animated and interactive recaps of stories they’ve read, and some have written their own narratives. The magic is when they bring these stories to life using 3D characters in a variety of settings. For example, students could adapt a classic story or novel they have read and add a twist, such as an alternative ending. Many students enjoy using their imagination to create stories. Once they set the scene, they can use CoSpaces Edu’s coding tools—such as CoBlocks—to add interactivity, allowing their characters to move, speak, and more. We can share their work with classmates, which adds more meaning to and engagement with the learning experience.
These types of projects foster creativity and problem-solving and build communication skills. Students not only have to write their narrative but also decide how to visually and interactively represent it. They engage in a process that encourages collaboration, especially when students work in teams to script, design, and code their virtual worlds. This was a game-changer in my Spanish II class!
4. Revolutionize Language Learning with AR/VR
Interactive storytelling can also be an excellent tool for language learners. In my experience, students in Spanish II created virtual worlds in which their characters engaged in dialogues, which helped them build their language skills in a dynamic and engaging way. It also led to greater retention of the content.
One project involved students creating a virtual Spanish-speaking city where they placed shops, restaurants, and other landmarks. Each student had a role in the virtual environment and had to speak in Spanish to describe their location or interact with others. This project increased student engagement, content retention, and enthusiasm for learning the language. It was also a unique way to reinforce grammar and vocabulary.
Incorporating AR/VR into language learning allows students to “live” the language, making it a more authentic and enjoyable experience. This kind of immersive learning fosters deeper connections with the material. It helps students retain what they’ve learned, which is essential in all areas, particularly in building confidence in language skills.
5. Collaborative STEM Projects
With CoSpaces Edu, students can design and code virtual prototypes, models, and even entire experiments. One of my favorite uses for the platform is collaborative STEM projects. Students can work in teams to design and build virtual spaces or objects, such as a virtual physics experiment exploring Newton’s laws or an architectural model of a bridge or building.
CoSpaces Edu’s collaborative features allow multiple students to work on the same project in real-time from different devices, making it perfect for group projects, whether students are in the classroom or learning remotely. Think about global collaboration possibilities, too! We want students to build teamwork, communication, and problem-solving skills and manage their time. Because they can collaborate in CoSpaces Edu, it makes opportunities available for STEM learning that is more engaging and hands-on.
6. Virtual Museums and Global Collaboration
Building global awareness is so important. Our students must learn about other cultures and have experiences connecting them with authentic and real-world learning opportunities. What if students from around the world collaborate to create a virtual museum that represents items from their different locations? With CoSpaces Edu, this is not only possible but easy to implement. Teachers can connect classrooms from different countries, enabling students to collaborate on a global scale to build and curate virtual museums on various topics, from world history to art or any topic they choose.
Students can design a virtual museum showcasing the art of different cultures. Using CoSpaces Edu’s 3D creation tools, they can build exhibit halls and import 3D models of art pieces or artifacts. Each student can contribute a different exhibit and then link them together into a larger museum space. A project like this not only fosters creativity and digital literacy but also deepens cultural understanding and instills empathy as students explore and share knowledge from diverse perspectives.
Where to begin
I have used CoSpaces Edu for many years. It is definitely way more than just a tech tool for students. It is a transformative platform that fosters the development of critical future skills like creativity, collaboration, critical thinking, and digital literacy. Whether you’re teaching elementary students to create 3D models or high school students to code virtual worlds, CoSpaces Edu offers endless possibilities for engaging, interactive, and collaborative learning experiences.
CoSpaces Edu shifts students from consumers to creators! My students are always wowed by what they explore when we get started. These are only six ideas to explore, and there are many more possibilities and lesson plans available for educators to explore right away.
CoSpaces Edu is easy to use, works on any device, and offers a secure, COPPA- and FERPA-compliant environment, which is critical. Dive into CoSpaces Edu this fall and watch your students’ creativity and future-ready skills soar.
About the Author
Dr. Rachelle Dené Poth is a Spanish and STEAM: What’s Next in Emerging Technology Teacher at Riverview High School in Oakmont, PA. Rachelle is also an attorney with a Juris Doctor degree from Duquesne University School of Law and a Master’s in Instructional Technology. Rachelle received her Doctorate in Instructional Technology, and her research focus was on AI and Professional Development. In addition to teaching, she is a full-time consultant and works with companies and organizations to provide PD, speaking, and consulting services. Contact Rachelle for your event!
Rachelle is an ISTE-certified educator and community leader who served as president of the ISTE Teacher Education Network. By EdTech Digest, she was named the EdTech Trendsetter of 2024, one of 30 K-12 IT Influencers to follow in 2021, and one of 150 Women Global EdTech Thought Leaders in 2022.
She is the author of nine books including ‘In Other Words: Quotes That Push Our Thinking,” “ Unconventional Ways to Thrive in EDU ,” “The Future is Now: Looking Back to Move Ahead,” “Chart A New Course: A Guide to Teaching Essential Skills for Tomorrow’s World, “ True Story: Lessons That One Kid Taught Us ,” “Things I Wish […] Knew” and her newest “How To Teach AI” is available from ISTE or on Amazon.
Contact Rachelle to schedule sessions about Artificial Intelligence, Coding, AR/VR, and more for your school or event! Submit the Contact Form .
Follow Rachelle on Twitter(X) and Instagram at @Rdene915
**Interested in writing a guest blog for my site? Would love to share your ideas! Submit your post here . Looking for a new book to read? Find these available at bit.ly/Pothbooks
************ Also check out my THRIVEinEDU Podcast Here !
Join my show on THRIVEinEDU on Facebook. Join the group here .
Digital Citizenship Week is celebrated in October each year. The focus is on building digital citizenship skills, and there is a designated digcit week with events planned for schools to join in and learn more. These are concepts that teachers and schools should focus on throughout the year as well. With the increased use of digital tools in our classrooms and the amount of technology used in everyday life and work, we must consistently provide learning opportunities for students to develop “digcit” skills.
Being a responsible digital citizen means that all individuals are able to use technology ethically, responsibly, and effectively. It is important to develop an understanding of the impact that one’s digital actions can have on other individuals and on society as a whole. Students and teachers must be able to keep themselves safe, know how to protect their privacy, learn how to critically analyze information, and engage in respectful interactions online.
Teaching digital citizenship skills
Privacy and security: With increased data collection and online tracking of websites we use and how our information is shared, understanding how to safeguard our privacy is key.  With more students using digital tools and at a younger age, it is essential to build in activities that will help students to better understand how to protect themselves and to respect the privacy of others as well. For instance, teaching students how to create unique passwords is key for securing personal information. With the increase in cybersecurity attacks over the past few years, updating passwords and even using two-factor authentication (TFA) will help to keep everyone safer.
Communication: With the variety of social media platforms available and how quickly we can post and respond, providing opportunities for students to practice responsible posting is an area that we need to focus on regularly. Even with young students, simulating a Twitter (X) chat or other online discussion can be done using Post-it notes, for example. Depending on grade level, another option is to use a tool like Padlet to help students learn how to properly post and interact with one another.
About the Author:
Dr. Rachelle Dené Poth is a Spanish and STEAM: What’s Next in Emerging Technology Teacher at Riverview High School in Oakmont, PA. Rachelle is also an attorney with a Juris Doctor degree from Duquesne University School of Law and a Master’s in Instructional Technology. Rachelle received her Doctorate in Instructional Technology, and her research focus was on AI and Professional Development. In addition to teaching, she is a full-time consultant and works with companies and organizations to provide PD, speaking, and consulting services. Contact Rachelle for your event!
Rachelle is an ISTE-certified educator and community leader who served as president of the ISTE Teacher Education Network. By EdTech Digest, she was named the EdTech Trendsetter of 2024, one of 30 K-12 IT Influencers to follow in 2021, and one of 150 Women Global EdTech Thought Leaders in 2022.
She is the author of nine books including ‘In Other Words: Quotes That Push Our Thinking,” “ Unconventional Ways to Thrive in EDU ,” “The Future is Now: Looking Back to Move Ahead,” “Chart A New Course: A Guide to Teaching Essential Skills for Tomorrow’s World, “ True Story: Lessons That One Kid Taught Us ,” “Things I Wish […] Knew” and her newest “How To Teach AI” is available from ISTE or on Amazon.
Contact Rachelle to schedule sessions about Artificial Intelligence, Coding, AR/VR, and more for your school or event! Submit the Contact Form .
Follow Rachelle on Twitter(X) and Instagram at @Rdene915
**Interested in writing a guest blog for my site? Would love to share your ideas! Submit your post here . Looking for a new book to read? Find these available at bit.ly/Pothbooks
************ Also check out my THRIVEinEDU Podcast Here !
Join my show on THRIVEinEDU on Facebook. Join the group here .
Opinions expressed are those of the guest blogger.
Every night at bedtime, I sing songs with my son. We snuggle close as the lyrics “lullaby and goodnight, go to sleep…” dance off our lips. Lately, he has begun asking me to make up songs about various important objects in his life- blue blankey, mister fox, and big excavators. I sing songs on the spot that tie melodies to his little world of things. One night, out of his mouth comes “sing a song about Ms. Davey”. Delightfully surprised, I met this request with a smile in my heart because of how it exemplified the fondness he feels toward his school teacher.
Educators are irreplaceable. They are far more than academic messengers; they serve as overseers of students’ psychological wellbeing. Learning has been and always will be a social experience. We learn from teachers, from peers, from successes, from mistakes, and from interactions with others. Sure, we learn our academic material, but more so, we learn social and relational skills. We begin to learn our place in the world as we rub shoulders with others. Relationships are the foundation for motivation and learning (McKay & Macomber, 2023). Educators offer numerous key psychological and relational nutrients, two of which are object constancy and friction. These unique human components are increasingly important to instill in students amidst a world of proliferating emerging technologies.
Object Constancy
Definition: object constancy begins when the “empathic parent holds a vision of the future child and in various ways mediates this vision to the child. The child, in identification with it, can then grow. By internalizing aspects of the parent, the child also internalizes the parent’s image of the child…a primary concern for a teacher is the aiding in the growth and development of another. The idea that teacher’s capacity to imagine future growth, anticipate something for the student, hold that in mind for them, and offer that vision is a reflective way of expanding possibilities and potentialities for them. Perhaps in this way, the successful, authentic, and autonomous student begins in the mind of the teacher” (Danze, 2022, pg. 149).
As overseers of students’ psychological and emotional development, educators contribute to the formation of students’ object constancy. Object constancy is a psychological concept describing how we acquire our internal voice. When we are young, parental figures, family members, and teachers speak into us and speak over us. The tone and content of these voices become embedded in our developing identities. Over time, and with enough repetition, these voices become our own internal voice. For better or for worse, what we hear in our early developmental stages sticks with us. Object constancy is when we internalize external voices, making them our own inner dialog.
Educators contribute to students’ developing object constancy on a regular basis; recognizing achievements, applauding kindness, and course-correcting missteps. Teachers even have the privilege of helping rewire negative voices ringing in students’ ears. Neuroplasticity is the science that reveals how we can change our thoughts, feelings, and actions, unlearning that which is detrimental and instead, learning what is beneficial. A consistent, encouraging voice from a teacher can act as a counterpoint to disparaging voices that may be lingering in students’ minds. Just as educators help students internalize positive voices, they also create opportunities for students to learn from challenges.
Friction
Definition: friction is “shap[ing] learning as people with different backgrounds and skill sets engage with each other on real problems if these people are provided with the right context. Productive friction is particularly valuable at boundaries because it exposes people to different ways of seeing problems and the potential solutions” (Ward et al., 2011).
All human relationships contain some degree of friction. Friction is the concept of learning through challenges. Friction may be small or great, it may be above or below the surface, and it may be beneficial or consequential. Friction is a necessary element of relationships because it teaches us to consider others, compromise, and reduces our tendency toward self-absorption. Educators encourage, yes, but they also challenge. Both are equally important. Excellent educators can gauge the individual balance for each student between encouragement and challenge. This both affirms students as they are and calls them forward to who they can be.
AI and Educators
Definition: Artificial Intelligence, AI is broadly defined as giving a computer human-like capabilities, such as understanding, problem-solving, and reasoning (Enholm et al., 2022).
Object constancy and friction are two components of relationships that cannot be replaced by emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI). Sure, on a superficial level you could prompt a Generative AI Large Language Model to mimic these relational elements, but they come naturally in human interactions. There are specific use cases for AI that can offer support in the form of augmentation for teachers who are overwhelmed with work yet longing to return to what led them to education in the beginning: the opportunity to positively influence students through relational connection. There is a place for AI in the classroom that does not threaten but enhances the role of the teacher. Drawing the conclusion that we must choose between teachers and AI is a false dichotomy. Augmenting work with AI can serve as a catalyst to redesign the vocational identity of educators. This ever-present help can afford teachers the opportunity to once again return to a primary role of relational facilitator and guide. Bringing AI into the classroom cannot and will not replace educators, but it may open the door for administrative burdens to lighten and therefore relational dynamics to increase.
The vital role of educators extends beyond the confines of academic instruction, shaping students’ emotional and psychological landscapes through concepts like object constancy and friction. Just as the simple yet profound request to “sing a song about Ms. Davey” highlights the deep bond students form with their teachers, it underscores the immeasurable value of human connection in education. Successful integration of AI into the classroom is predicated upon the fact that technology complements, not replaces, the relational essence of teaching. Leveraging AI to assist with administrative tasks allows educators to return to their core mission: fostering meaningful relationships that guide and shape students’ development. So tonight, as we sing about Ms. Davey, and by extension countless other educators, may AI serve as a tool to enhance impact, and bolster ongoing service in the name of young minds.
References
Enholm, I. M., Papagiannidis, E., Mikalef, P., & Krogstie, J. (2022). Artificial intelligence and business value: A literature review. Information Systems Frontiers, 24(5), 1709-1734. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10796-021-10186-w
McKay, C., & Macomber, G. (2023). The Importance of Relationships in Education: Reflections of Current Educators. Journal of Education, 203(4), 751-758.
Interested in guest blogging or Rachelle’s consulting services?
Contact Rachelle to schedule sessions about Artificial Intelligence, Coding, AR/VR, and more for your school or event! Submit the Contact Form .
Follow Rachelle on Twitter(X) and Instagram at @Rdene915
**Interested in writing a guest blog for my site? Would love to share your ideas! Submit your post here . Looking for a new book to read? Find these available at bit.ly/Pothbooks
************ Also check out my THRIVEinEDU Podcast Here !
Join my show on THRIVEinEDU on Facebook. Join the group here .
Modern education looks vastly different for young students today. With the advent of educational technology, students can experience more interactive and immersive lessons thanks to the proper use of screen time . When focused on education purposes, digital tools can improve visual intelligence, stimulate hand-eye coordination, and strengthen tech knowledge while learning other skills in a controlled environment.
Of course, too much of anything can be a bad thing. A study on screen exposure revealed that children and adolescents are more likely to develop myopia, especially when directly interacting with computers often. This is why it is so important to know the potential repercussions of screen time and how best to navigate it so students reap the benefits.
How screen time is harming student eye health
More than 600,000 children have vision difficulties in the United States. Screen exposure has made eye problems an earlier concern, with 10% of preschoolers already having issues and 30% of adolescents having myopia. Furthermore, the latest CDC statistics even reveal that the number of children under 18 getting diagnosed with vision conditions has increased in the last decade.
The reality is that young kids are exposed to too much screen time, even during their recreational hours, making it harder on their eyes during delicate developmental stages. Blue light exposure is bad enough, but there is also the issue of glare, bad screen practices, and spending too much time in front of the screen. Thankfully, all hope is not lost, and there are ways to do things differently and mitigate the potential negative effects of screen time on students.
How to promote better eye care for kids in the digital age
Promote ocular hygiene
Eye care goes a long way in preventing damage and unnecessary strain. A significant part of this is good ocular hygiene, which ties into other cleanliness practices. A recent study in the National Library of Medicine found students touching their faces 23 times per hour, with 27% involving the eyes. From elementary to high school, students must be reminded to avoid their eyes and keep their hands clean when handling shared digital devices. This trickles over to students who already use corrective vision. Older students who wear contact lenses should clean their lenses regularly and replace their contacts upon expiration. They can even be routed to accessible digital ways of getting new lenses properly, especially when dealing with Dailies like the Acuvue Oasys for astigmatism or biweekly like Avira Vitality. The CDC finds that 40% to 90% of contact users don’t follow their lens care instructions, so teachers and parents need to advocate for them to stay on top of things. It’s also critical to teach students, particularly the younger ones, how to properly clean and use their eyeglasses.
Encourage break time
The American Optometric Association encourages the 20-20-20 rule to prevent digital eye strain. Since screen exposure is inevitable, especially considering how many students have their own mobile devices, it’s good to give them these tools to give their eyes a break. The rule indicates that you take a 20-second break for every 20 minutes of screen time. During this break, you must look at an object at least 20 feet away. The simple rule shouldn’t be hard to teach students, and it’s a genuinely effective method of minimizing strain. When using digital devices as a class, you can even set a timer and have everyone in the class practice the 20-20-20 rule together.
Teach proper screen positioning
Common ed-tech tools require students to be in contact with a monitor. Make sure that the screen is at least 20 inches away from the students’ eyes. For lessons that involve tablets or other handheld devices, teach students to keep at least an arm’s length distance when using larger screens. It’s also a good idea to impose a viewing angle that directs their eyes downward when looking at the middle of the screen.
Know the signs of strain
Many vision problems manifest in unobvious ways, so watch for them. School-aged children can display subtler symptoms like a short attention span, avoidance of reading and other vision or focus-related activities, difficulty keeping track of their place when reading, and turning their heads to the side when looking at something. While other factors may cause these, they can also be manifestations of eye problems.
Post written in collaboration with Maisy Byrne.
About Rachelle’s blog
Follow Rachelle on Twitter(X) and Instagram at @Rdene915
**Interested in writing a blog for my site? Would love to share your ideas! Submit your post here . Sponsored and Collaborative posts are welcome.
Looking for a new book to read? Find these available at bit.ly/Pothbooks or order from me directly bit.ly/bookorderpoth.
************ Also check out my THRIVEinEDU Podcast Here !
Join my show on THRIVEinEDU on Facebook. Join the group here .
In collaboration with ReadSpeaker, guest post by Amy Foxwell
In today’s digital age, technology is a powerful ally in making education more accessible. One notable advancement is Text-to-Speech (TTS) technology, which transforms written text into spoken words. ReadSpeaker , a leading solution in this field, offers a variety of tools to enhance learning, creating a more accessible and engaging experience for all students.
Enhancing Accessibility
For students with visual impairments or reading disabilities such as dyslexia, TTS technology is a game-changer. ReadSpeaker enables these students to access and understand content more easily by converting text into audio. ReadSpeaker also allows users to select the reading language, speed and volume while simultaneously offering a variety of additional study tools to support student reading and writing.
ReadSpeaker Reading and Writing Support
• Bimodal presentation improves comprehension by presenting information in visual and audio formats at the same time
• Reading tools, such as page mask and reading ruler, available for increased readability
• Dictionary lookup
Supporting Diverse Learning
ReadSpeaker helps students with diverse needs by providing an alternative method of consuming information. TTS allows students to listen to content while following along, enhancing engagement and retention. ReadSpeaker offers voice for any content, including courses, PDFs, ebooks, web research, training materials, quizzes, OCR images, STEM content and more. Learners enjoy a more immersive reading experience, resulting in greater comprehension, increased self-confidence, and improved academic performance.
ReadSpeaker and Universal Design for Learning
The Universal Design for Learning (UDL) framework was developed by CAST to enhance course design to meet the needs of diverse learners. Based on learning science, the UDL framework guides the design of instructional goals, assessments, methods, and materials to meet the individual needs of each student. A champion of UDL for many years, ReadSpeaker provides easy-to-access and easy-to-use text-to-speech for any content on any device and can be used individually or seamlessly integrated into learning platforms or LMSs. ReadSpeaker’s speech-enabled learning tools align with UDL principles by providing visual and auditory alternatives, allowing students to engage with and absorb content in multiple ways according to their needs.  Learn more about ReadSpeaker and UDL here .
Supporting Multilingual Education
In increasingly diverse classrooms, language barriers can pose significant challenges. ReadSpeaker offers multilingual support, allowing students to hear text in their native language or practice new languages. This feature is particularly beneficial for non-native speakers who might find reading in a second language daunting. By listening to the pronunciation and intonation, students can improve their language skills more naturally and effectively.
Second Language Learning: How Text to Speech Can Help https://www.readspeaker.com/blog/second-language-learning/
Enhancing Focus and Reducing Cognitive Load
Reading large amounts of text can be overwhelming, especially for students with attention deficit disorders. TTS technology helps reduce the cognitive load by allowing students to listen to text in addition to reading it. ReadSpeaker’s learning tools, such as highlighting text as it reads aloud, improve student focus, comprehension, and engagement with the content.
Making STEM content engaging and interactive
How does text-to-speech support a student who needs to hear math expressions in class and when working at home? Not every TTS system can accurately read mathematical symbols, and many aren’t set up to understand the code that presents math digitally. ReadSpeaker’s advanced math-reading tools remove this barrier to access by providing accurate audio versions of mathematical expressions and text at once with some of the most lifelike AI voices available.
Improve STEM Accessibility With Text to Speech for Math
ReadSpeaker’s text-to-speech solutions provide improved digital accessibility to various populations of learners, including those with learning disabilities, visual impairment, or literacy challenges. TTS tools can be integrated into a secure learning environment or e‑­assessment platform , even in locked browsers and proprietary proctoring systems. This capability allows instructors and administrators to better address the diverse needs of students while more easily meeting accessibility accommodation requirements.
LMS Integration
ReadSpeaker for LMS provides text-to-speech plugins and audio-enhanced learning tools that can be easily integrated into any LMS. The ReadSpeaker Listen icon will appear in the course window. The learner can then choose whether to activate the ReadSpeaker tools or not. When activated, the ReadSpeaker Listen button can be moved to wherever the learner prefers. The cloud-based solutions ensure that when course content is updated, it is immediately speech-enabled.
By supporting students with disabilities, accommodating diverse learning styles, promoting inclusion, facilitating multilingual education, and enhancing focus, ReadSpeaker helps create a more equitable learning environment. Embracing such technologies can ensure that every student has the opportunity to succeed and realize their individual goals.
For more information or to set up a personalized demo for your institution, email us at education@readspeaker.com or visit www.readspeaker.com/education
About Rachelle’s blog
Follow Rachelle on Twitter(X) and Instagram at @Rdene915
**Interested in writing a guest blog for my site? Would love to share your ideas! Submit your post here . Looking for a new book to read? Find these available at bit.ly/Pothbooks
************ Also check out my THRIVEinEDU Podcast Here !
Join my show on THRIVEinEDU on Facebook. Join the group here .
Teachers everywhere are aware of the effect AI is having on students and education in general. While that may bring back pencil and paper activities to help students do their own thinking, AI can offer teachers some much-needed help. Meet TeachAid, which can be, according to their website, “your AI teaching assistant. Time is precious. Spend it teaching! Let us handle the rest.” That appeals to me because there is never enough time in the day to plan engaging and effective lessons, grade student work, attend meetings, and have a life outside of school. Anything that saves me time is worth a try, and the more I look over what Teach Aid can do, the bigger fan of it I become. I have been teaching for 28 years, and while the formative and summative assessments are pre-planned each year, creating the path to those assessments is up to me. After exploring Teach Aid, I believe it is a platform that can be of value to all teachers by providing actual units, activities, lessons, and learning targets. If nothing else, it can spark ideas for lesson activities.
TICKING AWAY THE MOMENTS THAT MAKE UP A DULL DAY
Teach Aid begins the AI unit creation by asking for specific unit information that will help them generate all the teaching materials needed to effectively teach your unit according to your local curriculum, including lesson plans, presentations, assignment descriptions, rubrics, and more. There are 5 steps to creating the unit:
Basic Information
Unit Timeline
Final Assessment
YOU FRITTER AND WASTE THE HOURS IN AN OFFHAND WAY
It only takes a few minutes, and then the magic happens. At each step of the way, you can edit or revise what is created before clicking for the AI to continue building the unit, lessons, activities, etc. It really is like magic. Things that might take me several minutes to think through appear before my eyes in seconds. The entire unit may take a few minutes, but it is incredibly fast, provides opportunities for editing, and creates everything needed for teaching the unit. The interactive slides have presenter notes on how to teach or conduct the activity. New teachers can have all the help they need with just a few clicks, and experienced teachers can find inspiration and fresh ideas for current units.
KICKING AROUND ON A PIECE OF GROUND IN YOUR HOMETOWN
Depending on where you live, Teach Aid may already have your state or country’s standards loaded into their system. If not, reach out to them so that they can begin to add them. There are also some limitations currently in the subjects available, depending on where you live, but I also expect this list to grow as the company grows. If what you need isn’t listed, you can still build a unit with standards from another state/country or subject to see what ideas you might get from what is created until your subjects or standards are added to those available. I demonstrated how Teach Aid worked for about 30 2nd year Missouri teachers, and I could hear minds exploding. Audible gasps. There are some content limitations currently. PE and art teachers were envious of teachers of the available subjects, but everyone was duly impressed with the speed, thoroughness, and quality of the units, lessons, activities, etc., produced. We were all impressed with the customization built into the unit creation process.
WAITING FOR SOMEONE OR SOMETHING TO SHOW YOU THE WAY
Even the lesson activity building allows for a lot of customization, even if you choose to have it auto-generated.
At this time, Teach Aid is free for teachers to use, and there is enough content there already for you to experience creating units even if your standards or subject matter has not been added yet. Do click the button to request the standards or subject you need, and then explore states or countries that are included and might be similar enough to what you need for you to develop and customize a unit, lesson, and/or activity.
So when you hear AI discussions going on in your building or department, remember Teach Aid and shed some light on the possibilities AI can provide to teachers. Time is a commodity that is in high demand for our profession, so anything that can free up time for us is a win. A no-brainer. Dive in.
HEADINGS ARE PARTIAL LYRICS FROM THE SONG, TIME, BY PINK FLOYD.
Connect with Laura via @SteinbrinkLaura on Twitter/X
Contact Rachelle to schedule sessions about Artificial Intelligence, Coding, AR/VR, and more for your school or event! Submit the Contact Form .
Follow Rachelle on Twitter(X) and Instagram at @Rdene915
**Interested in writing a guest blog for my site? Would love to share your ideas! Submit your post here . Looking for a new book to read? Find these available at bit.ly/Pothbooks
************ Also check out my THRIVEinEDU Podcast Here !
Join my show on THRIVEinEDU on Facebook. Join the group here .
As we head back into our classrooms for a new school year, educators are thinking about class schedules, grading, lesson plans, school meetings, observations, and so much more. Getting back into the daily teaching schedule can be a challenge, especially after having the summer “off.”
However, many educators don’t take the summer off. Instead, they take advantage of the extra time to engage in professional learning. Whether by attending conferences, joining book studies, participating in online learning events, or even heading to their classroom to prepare for the new school year, being prepared for school is always on teachers’ minds. Having the summer off, even if only for a few weeks, is nice because it provides time to relax and recharge and also time to be better prepared than the year before.
No matter how many years of experience an educator has, a new school year can be stressful.  I think it is important to start the year with goals and use our prior experiences to set clear focus points for ourselves and our students.
For many years, I remember conversations with colleagues about how they couldn’t sleep the night before the first day of school. Attributing it to being excited and nervous about starting a new school year and doing it right. In my experience, I always slept well and never really worried about being prepared for the first day of school. For me, it was always the second day and every day after that. For me, the first day of school was simply the time to introduce myself to students, talk about what they could expect in my class, and provide any materials they needed to take home for their families. I started each year with rules and procedures. Unfortunately, I did not realize that the content could wait. I should have placed more importance on creating a supportive classroom community and focusing on building relationships first. Now that I know better before the year starts, there are some questions that I ask myself:
Did I reflect enough on my teaching practice, and have I identified areas I want and need to work on?
Am I prepared with new ideas, whether different methods or digital tools, to bring into my classroom to help engage students in learning?
What are some ways that we can build relationships and get to know one another?
How can I create a welcoming classroom space that fosters creativity and curiosity for learning?
Many more questions cross my mind and likely cross the minds of educators everywhere. It comes down to thinking about and reflecting on what we learned about our practice and methods used during the past school year. What activities and methods have made an impact not only on student learning but also on building essential social-emotional learning (SEL) skills? Which methods or tools helped students feel more connected with their classmates and the content? Cultivating a learning environment where students have choices, feel comfortable, and become more confident amplifies their learning potential. It leads to a supportive classroom community.
As we head into a new school year, it is always the perfect time to try a few new ideas and see how the students respond and the impact on learning and then decide where to go from there. Teaching the content material is important, but finding ways to boost student engagement and foster the development of essential SEL skills is also important. With so many things to consider, I am choosing five focus points for starting the new school year:
Build Relationships: Starting on day one, we need to get to know our students and let them get to know us, too. When we create opportunities for students to connect with each other and build a collaborative and supportive space, we will see how it positively impacts the learning that happens in our classroom. By starting with relationship building, we will create a space where students feel comfortable making mistakes and know they are supported by us and their peers. Creating a comfortable, supportive space is essential for learning. Have students create an “About Me” or use icebreakers to get to know each other and make sure that you participate too.
Set goals and reflect: At the start of the school year, have students set some goals for themselves in your class. Not just students it’s also important that we set goals for ourselves and share them with our students. When we do this together, we hold each other accountable and provide the support that we all need in our classroom space. We know the importance of SEL and by setting goals and reflecting on them throughout the year, we will be focusing on self-awareness and self-management in particular, which are essential for student learning and being prepared for the future. Provide some questions for reflection, such as:  How do I think it went? What would I change? Are there areas that I can improve upon?
Create a community: Students need to know how to access resources for the class and to be able to connect with the teacher and classmates. It is important to set up a space or have a system for being able to communicate with students. Sending an email every Friday with a recap of the week, using a messaging app, or designing a class website are all good ways to create a learning community. Having a space where students can interact and access the resources they need to be successful is important, and we have definitely learned how essential it is after our experiences over the past couple of years. Another thing to consider is how to involve students more in the design of the learning experiences in the classroom and have them truly be a part of the learning community.
Promote collaboration: In preparing students for the future, we know that one of the essential skills they need is the ability to communicate and collaborate with others. Students need opportunities to do this in the classroom as well as in a virtual space. Using different methods, like station rotations, where students can work with peers, or through digital tools like Padlet, we can promote collaboration. Students can build content area skills while also building digital citizenship skills and SEL skills.
Foster creativity and curiosity for learning: When we create a learning environment where students feel welcomed and supported, they will feel more comfortable participating in class activities, interacting with their peers, and taking risks with learning. Provide students with different choices for creating and sharing what they have learned. Use methods like Genius Hour or PBL to spark curiosity and promote student-driven learning. Offer choices in digital tools that foster creativity, such as Book Creator , Canva , Genially , Storybird or Storyboard That .
Start the year with some focus areas and involve students in the discussion. Get their feedback, ask for ideas, and enjoy the learning process together. Don’t be afraid to take some risks with new ideas or tools. With new ideas, we can boost student engagement and creativity, spark curiosity for learning, and student needs and interests are better met.
About the Author:
Dr. Rachelle Dené Poth is a Spanish and STEAM: What’s Next in Emerging Technology Teacher at Riverview High School in Oakmont, PA. Rachelle is also an attorney with a Juris Doctor degree from Duquesne University School of Law and a Master’s in Instructional Technology. Rachelle received her Doctorate in Instructional Technology, and her research focus was on AI and Professional Development. In addition to teaching, she is a full-time consultant and works with companies and organizations to provide PD, speaking, and consulting services. Contact Rachelle for your event!
Rachelle is an ISTE-certified educator and community leader who served as president of the ISTE Teacher Education Network. By EdTech Digest, she was named the EdTech Trendsetter of 2024, one of 30 K-12 IT Influencers to follow in 2021, and one of 150 Women Global EdTech Thought Leaders in 2022.
She is the author of nine books including ‘In Other Words: Quotes That Push Our Thinking,” “ Unconventional Ways to Thrive in EDU ,” “The Future is Now: Looking Back to Move Ahead,” “Chart A New Course: A Guide to Teaching Essential Skills for Tomorrow’s World, “ True Story: Lessons That One Kid Taught Us ,” “Things I Wish […] Knew” and her newest “How To Teach AI” is available from ISTE or on Amazon.
Contact Rachelle to schedule sessions about Artificial Intelligence, Coding, AR/VR, and more for your school or event! Submit the Contact Form .
Follow Rachelle on Twitter(X) and Instagram at @Rdene915
**Interested in writing a guest blog for my site? Would love to share your ideas! Submit your post here . Looking for a new book to read? Find these available at bit.ly/Pothbooks
************ Also check out my THRIVEinEDU Podcast Here !
Join my show on THRIVEinEDU on Facebook. Join the group here .
In collaboration with Noodle Factory, all opinions are my own.
As an educator constantly seeking innovative methods to enhance learning and teaching, my exploration recently led me to an exciting platform: Noodle Factory. When I find a new tool, especially when it comes to AI, I love sharing my experiences so that other educators can get started.
It has been fun exploring its various options and, in particular, its standout features, such as Walter+, the AI teaching assistant designed for grades K through 12. Walter+ is designed to help educators enhance and transform the learning experiences they provide for students. Noodle Factory makes it easy to get started by providing guidance, being available for questions, and even doing a demo! For any educator wondering where to begin with AI in their classroom, I definitely recommend exploring Noodle Factory and seeing the impact on student learning. Giving students a chance to learn about and interact with AI is important.
Why AI in Education Matters
The integration of AI in education is reshaping how educators deliver the content and impacting how students engage with the material. With purposeful use and the right pedagogical practices, AI tools can assist educators in various ways. It can help to personalize learning, automate grading, and create engaging, interactive content while complementing traditional teaching methods. Noodle Factory provides tools that are not just innovative but also intuitive and effective for use in the classroom. Especially as educators seek more efficient ways to deliver instruction and provide feedback to students, knowing how to leverage the power of AI is key. Noodle Factory offers innovative tools that enhance both learning and teaching processes.
First Experiences with Noodle Factory
When I first started with Noodle Factory, I was quite surprised by how easy it was to generate personalized learning resources for students. By uploading some of my teaching materials onto the platform, I saw how Walter+ tailored these resources into personalized learning experiences. I was impressed with its AI-driven dialogue system, which engages students in meaningful conversations and helps enhance their overall comprehension and retention of the content.
Using AI-powered tools such as Walter+ to create personalized learning experiences has been a game changer. I uploaded my teaching materials and waited briefly while Walter transformed them into interactive, engaging learning modules specific to my students’ needs. Noodle Factory’s ability to generate context-aware conversation flows and also, its ability to provide multilingual support enables educators to effectively reach students coming from different language backgrounds.
My favorite Noodle Factory Features
There are great features in Noodle Factory that will significantly impact teaching and students’ learning:
AI-driven Personalized Learning: Walter+ adapts to each student’s learning pace, helping to promote a more inclusive and effective learning environment.
We know that in order to accommodate students’ diverse learning needs, we have to understand where they are in the learning process and provide authentic, meaningful, and timely feedback. When this is possible in real-time, teachers can adjust, and each student can receive tailored educational experiences, which we know is crucial for learning. It provides students with instant, constructive feedback, which is key to fostering their academic growth.
Automated Grading and Feedback: We know that grading can take a great deal of time, especially when providing specific feedback for students. With Noodle Factory, educators can save time and provide students with immediate, actionable feedback, helping them understand their strengths and areas for improvement. This, of course, means that teachers can spend more time working directly with students, too!
Engaging and Interactive Content Creation Tools: With the various options available, I am able to boost student engagement. Noodle Factory ’s tools enable me to transform traditional lessons into more interactive sessions that spark students’ interest and foster deeper learning. Student engagement, which can be a challenge, is now an area that we can boost because of the tools available to us.
Results: Positive Impact on Teaching and Learning!
By using Noodle Factory, educators will see a boost in student engagement and learning performance. Noodle Factory helps with our productivity through its features, such as automated grading and real-time insights into students’ progress. Being able to grab a quick glimpse into where students are in the learning journey is so helpful for targeting our instruction as needed. Gathering feedback from students is also important as it helps us to know what works for them and how to enhance their learning experiences. It also assists with providing a personalized approach through an interactive learning environment.
The real-time performance tracking and flexible assessment modules help teachers tailor their teaching strategies in real time to best meet individual student needs. Give Noodle Factory a try today and see the impact it makes in your classroom, for students, and for your work as an educator!
Interested in experiencing this transformative tool? Great news! I’m offering an exclusive code for my readers to try the premium plan (Educator Plus) on Noodle Factory. Discover how Walter+ can enhance your teaching and provide your students with an unmatched educational experience. And be sure to let me know how it goes for you!
P.S. Check out my podcast episode, where I chat with the Co-Founders of Noodle Factory Yvonne and Jim! Listen here !
About the Author:
Dr. Rachelle Dené Poth is a Spanish and STEAM: What’s Next in Emerging Technology Teacher at Riverview High School in Oakmont, PA. Rachelle is also an attorney with a Juris Doctor degree from Duquesne University School of Law and a Master’s in Instructional Technology. Rachelle received her Doctorate in Instructional Technology, and her research focus was on AI and Professional Development. In addition to teaching, she is a full-time consultant and works with companies and organizations to provide PD, speaking, and consulting services. Contact Rachelle for your event!
Rachelle is an ISTE-certified educator and community leader who served as president of the ISTE Teacher Education Network. By EdTech Digest, she was named the EdTech Trendsetter of 2024, one of 30 K-12 IT Influencers to follow in 2021, and one of 150 Women Global EdTech Thought Leaders in 2022.
She is the author of nine books including ‘In Other Words: Quotes That Push Our Thinking,” “ Unconventional Ways to Thrive in EDU ,” “The Future is Now: Looking Back to Move Ahead,” “Chart A New Course: A Guide to Teaching Essential Skills for Tomorrow’s World, “ True Story: Lessons That One Kid Taught Us ,” “Things I Wish […] Knew” and her newest “How To Teach AI” is available from ISTE or on Amazon.
Contact Rachelle to schedule sessions about Artificial Intelligence, Coding, AR/VR, and more for your school or your event! Submit the Contact Form .
Follow Rachelle on Twitter(X) and Instagram at @Rdene915
**Interested in writing a guest blog for my site? Would love to share your ideas! Submit your post here . Looking for a new book to read? Find these available at bit.ly/Pothbooks
************ Also check out my THRIVEinEDU Podcast Here !
Join my show on THRIVEinEDU on Facebook. Join the group here .
In collaboration with MatataStudio EDU, Opinions are my own
The Nous AI Set is one of MatataStudio’s standout products. I have used all of their other great products in my classroom and have been amazed by what you can do with the Nous Set!
I had a chance to stop by their booth while attending and presenting at ISTE 2024 in Denver. It was awesome to see all of their fabulous products for students of all ages! It was also great to speak with their amazing team and learn about the options and new resources that are coming from MatataStudio for students! Thank you, Vivian!
[At the booth during ISTE, so many awesome learning resources to explore!]
Nous AI is designed to provide students with an understanding of artificial intelligence (AI) and enable them to build their knowledge through the various activities they can choose from and complete independently! What makes Nous different is its modular design. Students can choose how to design it, which allows it to support a variety of AI technologies and functions. Students can learn about machine learning, neural networks, machine vision, speech recognition, and autonomous driving capabilities, and more. It also offers tools like MatataChat and a range of other AI applications that are available right on its touchscreen.
The robot comes with a metal structure, and it is also compatible with building block structures, so it is a versatile tool for boosting creativity and problem-solving in its assembly and through robotics projects. The expandable electronic module system allows students to customize and enhance their projects, fostering a sense of ownership and creativity and leading to more authentic learning. Whether it’s programming with graphical interfaces or diving into Python programming, the Nous AI Set provides students with a comprehensive platform to explore the world of AI and have fun while doing so.
Engaging in Design and Engineering Thinking
What I appreciate about the Nous AI Set is how it encourages students to engage in design and engineering thinking, which helps them develop a greater interest in the learning process. In my classroom, I’ve seen students become deeply involved in designing, building, and testing their projects. A hands-on approach to learning is essential for developing critical thinking and problem-solving skills, which are crucial for future careers in STEM fields and beneficial in so many areas.
The Nous AI Set allows students to iterate on their designs, test different solutions, and refine their projects as they go. This iterative process is key to helping students build essential skills such as resilience and problem-solving. When students learn to view challenges as opportunities for growth rather than as obstacles, it provides them with skills that will benefit them now and as they prepare for the future. By focusing on the learning process rather than just the final product, students develop a deeper understanding of the principles of engineering and design.
Why should you explore Nous AI?
The Nous AI Robot is a transformative tool for STEAM education and works well in any classroom. MatataStudio offers options for each grade band and provides educators with a comprehensive and engaging way to teach AI and coding to all students. Its modular design, dual programming capabilities, and extensive learning resources make it suitable for students of varying skill levels and interests.
There are many possibilities, and with the Nous AI Set, we can help better prepare students for the future. As an educator who has seen the great impact on student collaboration in building the robot and the ideas that students generated, I recommend the Nous AI Robot for any classroom looking to incorporate AI and robotics into their curriculum, especially as a fun, impactful way to start a new school year! And explore new ideas and challenges throughout the year.
Whether you have years of experience or are new to teaching AI and coding, the Nous AI Robot provides the tools and resources to create a dynamic and interactive learning environment. The focus on hands-on learning and building connections to real-world applications ensures that students not only learn but also experience the exciting world of AI and robotics. There are so many tutorials available to help educators and students get started!
Real-World Applications
The Nous AI Robot is not just a learning tool; it also provides students with insights into real-world AI applications. For example, students can dive in and learn about AI through its activities focused on image recognition, speech recognition, and autonomous driving. Students can see how AI technologies are used in everyday life. These opportunities help students see the relevance of what they are learning, and hopefully, it will inspire them to pursue careers in AI and technology. It is so easy to use with its programmable touchscreen, which sparks curiosity for learning!
Project-based learning (PBL) is a great way to engage students in authentic, meaningful, and real-world learning. It is an essential component of the Nous AI curriculum. Students engage in projects that require them to build and then apply their knowledge of AI, programming, and engineering. The projects help reinforce AI concepts through practical application, which makes learning more effective, memorable, and fun for all students!
The Right Resources for Educators
MatataStudio doesn’t just provide innovative tools—they also offer fantastic learning resources to support educators and students. Educators can access online tutorials and curriculum guides, and various professional development resources are available. MatataStudio ensures that educators have everything they need to effectively integrate the Nous AI Set into their classrooms. These resources are invaluable in helping educators guide their students through the various functionalities of the robot, ensuring a comprehensive understanding of AI and programming.
I had a chance to explore these guides, and everything educators need to get started is available!
The curriculum guides provided by MatataStudio align with CSTA (Computer Science Teachers Association) and ISTE (International Society for Technology in Education) standards, as well as the 5 Big Ideas in AI, ensuring that the content is relevant and aligned with best practices in education.
As a STEAM educator who greatly values bringing STEM to all classrooms and learning about AI, I appreciate the resources provided because they are incredibly helpful for educators who want to plan and deliver lessons that are engaging and educational for all students.
With these options, educators don’t have to worry about spending a lot of time looking for the right resources and lessons to dive in. MatataStudio provides everything you need to get students started and let them take the lead! Create and innovate in our classrooms!
About the Author:
Dr. Rachelle Dené Poth is a Spanish and STEAM: What’s Next in Emerging Technology Teacher at Riverview High School in Oakmont, PA. Rachelle is also an attorney with a Juris Doctor degree from Duquesne University School of Law and a Master’s in Instructional Technology. Rachelle received her Doctorate in Instructional Technology, and her research focus was on AI and Professional Development. In addition to teaching, she is a full-time consultant and works with companies and organizations to provide PD, speaking, and consulting services. Contact Rachelle for your event!
Rachelle is an ISTE-certified educator and community leader and served as president of the ISTE Teacher Education Network. She was named the EdTech Trendsetter of 2024 by EdTech Digest, one of 30 K-12 IT Influencers to follow in 2021, and one of 150 Women Global EdTech Thought Leaders in 2022.
She is the author of nine books including ‘In Other Words: Quotes That Push Our Thinking,” “ Unconventional Ways to Thrive in EDU ,” “The Future is Now: Looking Back to Move Ahead,” “Chart A New Course: A Guide to Teaching Essential Skills for Tomorrow’s World, “ True Story: Lessons That One Kid Taught Us ,” “Things I Wish […] Knew” and her newest “How To Teach AI” is available from ISTE or on Amazon.
Contact Rachelle to schedule sessions about Artificial Intelligence, Coding, AR/VR, and more for your school or your event! Submit the Contact Form .
Follow Rachelle on Twitter(X) and Instagram at @Rdene915
**Interested in writing a guest blog for my site? Would love to share your ideas! Submit your post here . Looking for a new book to read? Find these available at bit.ly/Pothbooks
Guest post by Dr. Amy Mathews-Perez, a Director of Special Programs in a public school in Central Texas. Connect with Amy on X (formerly Twitter) at @drgrowtoknow, on Facebook at DrAmy MP or at her website dramyperez.com
“That one”…that one chance, that one restaurant, that one memory, that one job, that one student, that one teacher, that one……(you fill in the blank). I intentionally did not indicate if “the one” was positive or negative, I like to leave that up to the reader. Just out of curiosity, though, I’m wondering if you’ll reflect about what your “one”s were, if there was a pattern in your thoughts, and how you can use that to grow.
For this blog, I’m referencing “that one” source of feedback. In my situation, it was feedback from a conference session that I presented. I always seek feedback from the attendees before they leave my session, but then the conference itself seeks feedback as well. The conference feedback is what brought this learning opportunity to me, and I want to share it with you.
First, know that I value authenticity. I also enjoy positive response & engagement whether it is verbal, nonverbal, written, etc.. I don’t mean PRAISE, I mean positive responses like smiles, “ah-ha”, laughter, questions and collaboration. Second, in every session I lead I clearly and repeatedly reiterate that I don’t know it all; that I am a learner and that my best resources are my time and experiences in public education as well as audience response. In this session, there were at least 75 people; it was right after lunch, and folks were coming in to save seats before they left for lunch. This got me excited!!I love a full house for a session because it amps up the energy, creates more opportunities to meet new people, share new ideas and to get more folks actively involved in the learning. Overall, the session went as planned. The attendees accessed the information on their devices, asked great questions, provided original stories/examples, learned from each other, and interacted with the strategy I provided. There were prizes, music, examples, non-examples, laughter, and an acronym that made the strategy easy to remember. We all learned together.
A few weeks after the conference, I was provided session feedback from the host entity. Here are screenshots of this feedback:
The first thing that got my attention was the “less-than-positive” feedback on each question. The second thing I noticed is the number of responses. You’ve probably already figured out that approximately 32% of the attendees provided feedback through the conference entity. Being sharply attuned to things I can and cannot control and strongly believing in this mentality, I immediately began to “analyze” the 32% data I had versus ruminate about the 68% I did not have.
Is “the one” person who provided the neutral or negative feedback the same person in multiple questions?
Did I directly interact with “the one” person? (Did I make that person feel “seen?”)
Was there one (or more) specific thing – fact, example, story – that yielded the responses of “the one?”
Did “‘the one” actually attend my session? (just being transparent about my processing)
What do I have within my power/skill set/actions to prevent this in the future? (NOTE TO SELF: the goal is not to be “liked” but to be effective in sharing & facilitating learning)
What can I learn from “the one?” (the lowest ratings)
At this point, my self-talk voice this: Be brave enough to seek feedback, perceptive enough to accept it, and smart enough to learn from it. The details about what I’ve learned from “the one” thus far (because I look at this feedback frequently) would be another blog, but I’ll share the top five concepts of my learning.
NUMBERS DON’T EQUATE VALUE. Don’t dismiss the “minority” – the smallest percentage of types or content of feedback as worth less than the larger percentages.
REPEAT & REFLECT. Repeat the session in private with a lens of reflection. Be intentional in reviewing information that was planned and be diligent in recalling what spontaneous learning points occurred during the session…could those have been reframed? Be more attentive to spontaneous opportunities.
REVIEW & REPLAN. Review all feedback with a variety of lenses (the conference feedback and the feedback I got from attendees at the end of my session). Replan how the session will be different next time.
THAT ONE MATTERS. All feedback matters. The power I give “that one” is directly related to my growth as a person, professional, presenter and collaborator.
MAINTAIN FOCUS & AUTHENTICITY. My presentation style & information/examples/stories may not resonate with everyone; my purpose will continue to be my primary focus and I can consider ways to adjust how I demonstrate authenticity.
I’m grateful for the opportunities to share my passion, whether it is through breakout sessions at conferences, in-district training, keynotes, conversations, consultation and/or collaboration. As a life-long learner, feedback perpetuates my self-acclaimed label as an “Experience Expert” because I learn from every experience. Granted, it may take me more than one (or three) experiences to learn a lesson, but I will learn it. I’m a teacher at heart, so if my experiences and/or my sharing of how I process information help others learn as well, that is awesome. As I finish this blog I am preparing for a breakout session at the same conference; different topic, but the same audience type and I am super excited about it! If you’d like to know about the feedback I get, let’s connect via my website (dramyperez.com) or X @drgrowtoknow. Growing together makes us better. 🙂
About Amy
Texas-born & raised, Amy is in her 32nd year of serving public education. General Ed. Teacher, SLP, Diagnostician, SPED Supervisor, Assistant Principal, Principal, and Director of Special Education are roles she’s held. She is the CEO of Making Education Special for All (M.E.S.A), an LLC dedicated to training, facilitation, consultation, and speaking engagements that revolve around information, motivation, and insights on why and how to make education special for all stakeholders as well as leadership. Her passions are communication, joy, authenticity, and empowerment. “Life is short but our influence is never-ending,” and Amy is committed to connecting with others through service and smiles.
Want to write a guest blog? Contact Rachelle
Dr. Rachelle Dené Poth is a Spanish and STEAM: What’s Next in Emerging Technology Teacher at Riverview High School in Oakmont, PA. Rachelle is also an attorney with a Juris Doctor degree from Duquesne University School of Law and a Master’s in Instructional Technology. Rachelle received her Doctorate in Instructional Technology, and her research focus was on AI and Professional Development. In addition to teaching, she is a full-time consultant and works with companies and organizations to provide PD, speaking, and consulting services. Contact Rachelle for your event!
Rachelle is an ISTE-certified educator and community leader who served as president of the ISTE Teacher Education Network. By EdTech Digest, she was named the EdTech Trendsetter of 2024, one of 30 K-12 IT Influencers to follow in 2021, and one of 150 Women Global EdTech Thought Leaders in 2022.
She is the author of nine books including ‘In Other Words: Quotes That Push Our Thinking,” “ Unconventional Ways to Thrive in EDU ,” “The Future is Now: Looking Back to Move Ahead,” “Chart A New Course: A Guide to Teaching Essential Skills for Tomorrow’s World, “ True Story: Lessons That One Kid Taught Us ,” “Things I Wish […] Knew” and her newest “How To Teach AI” is available from ISTE or on Amazon.
Contact Rachelle to schedule sessions about Artificial Intelligence, Coding, AR/VR, and more for your school or your event! Submit the Contact Form .
Follow Rachelle on Twitter(X) and Instagram at @Rdene915
**Interested in writing a guest blog for my site? Would love to share your ideas! Submit your post here . Looking for a new book to read? Find these available at bit.ly/Pothbooks
************ Also check out my THRIVEinEDU Podcast Here !
Join my show on THRIVEinEDU on Facebook. Join the group here .
Subscribe to my newsletter
Check out my books
Click: Books Page below for information on how to order signed copies! Or go to bit.ly/Pothbooks
Follow me on Twitter
Follow my Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address:
4 days to go.
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address:
Follow my Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address:
Follow @rdene915
