The Marco Polo Report is a 630-page report on Hunter Biden's laptop that documents 459 crimes by the Biden family, including business, sex, and drug crimes.
-  Politician (45th U.S. President)
Unemployment for women hit its lowest rate in nearly 70 years.
Lifted nearly 7 million people off of food stamps.
Poverty rates for African Americans and Hispanic Americans reached record lows.
ALEJANDRO MAYORKAS
-  The U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security
Was impeached by the House of Representatives for his handling of the U.S. immigration system, particularly in relation to the situation at the southern border.
Full Documentary: What is Treason? #Trafficked
Full Documentary: What is Treason? #Invaded
Jam Packed with Jaw-Dropping Revelations
Thought-Provoking Insights
⭐ VIP Access
$14.99One Time
20+ Long Form Interviews
Interviews with American Patriots, Journalists, Whistleblowers, and even Bounty Hunters
Stay One Step Ahead of FAKE NEWS!
WATCH TRAILER 1 (#TRAFFICKED)
WATCH TRAILER 2 (#INVADED)
Excellent91%
October 14, 2024
After watching this well put together documentary of trafficked women and children. I’m furious it’s been going on for so many years. I’m shocked any government official hasn’t made this a top priority to put a stop to this. I do want to thank the whistle blowers and everyone involved to help expose this travesty that’s happening right here in America. I originally watched it in a watch party, thanks to Sally. Then I chose to purchase it to donate and be able to share it with my immediate family. I believe in the d*ath penalty completely for anyone who r*pes a child. Or is complacent in trafficking these women and children. They have no voice, we are their voice.
Michelle
October 14, 2024
1st off I don’t really write reviews, but this documentary was an eye opener. I’m shocked to see that it is this deep. The corruption and illegal action by our government and these NGO. And 🤦🏼‍♂️ the children. We as humans shouldn’t let this coninue.
This documentary was produced to excellence showcasing the extreme length these people are doing to our country.
Thank you for the insight into this tragic situation, I didn’t know it was that bad.
Blu
Hang Them High
October 13, 2024
This is the most heinous and cruel situation one could ever imagine….. I can’t find your petition on the site but I’d gladly lend my name to it
Jack Doyle
Admiration & Horror
October 13, 2024
I’ve known that there has been broad practice & escalation of pedophilia, sex-trafficking, slavery, torture, Satanic/Paganistic ritual slavery & child sacrifices – and now to see the scale of it, that the US of A has the #1 DEMAND globally for all of these diabolical atrocities……. I hold the makers of and contributors to this documentary with high admiration for truly “doing something” to save CHILDREN from real HORROR that is actually beyond my imagination. I pray God this documentary has rapid and revolutionary results in exposing, transforming, and bringing to justice the political, governmental, and NGO which/who are responsible, that this chapter of EVIL will quickly end and children heal and get to live as children – “God’s children are not for sale”
Unsavvy me cannot find a link to the petition …… I thought in the doc it said go to thisistreason.com for it ……
William S. Gibson
Keeps running me in circles every time I click watch
Ralph
October 12, 2024
This crap has been going on for a long time, but now it’s out of control. How can you give citizenship to criminals?
Joe Battalio
Cult of Darkness
October 12, 2024
The abuse, murder and sacrifice has been going on since the beginning of time. The cults have always gone against the will of God Our Creator. Now, in this dark world, the prince of this world has brought this evil to an industrial scale. These people that do evil to God’s little ones will suffer the fires of eternal hell. We will not defeat this juggernaut without humbly calling on the Lord, repenting of leaving His Way and calling on His Heavenly armies. St Michael defend us in battle.
Bill
October 12, 2024
Very powerful!
The information in this documentary is something every American must see.
I hope it will reach many.
So much work and deep dive investigations showing things ain’t had no idea about.
Thank you Matt and team 🙏
Cadillacbutcher
October 11, 2024
very informative and honest reporting. Heart breaking to learn what is happening to our children and sickening to know our own is behind this sickness.
Deborah
October 11, 2024
Well done and informative even if you already follow real news and have gone down many a rabbit hole. Gotta love the butt hurt libs that give bad reviews because they’re too dumb to read the terms of digital access to the movies. SUKK IT PEDOS, the info is getting out like it or not. Apparently, the don’t like it. LOL
RobbyS
WHAT IS TREASON
© 2024 thisistreason.com. All rights reserved
IF YOU HAVE PURCHASED THE DOCUMENTARY AND ARE LOGGED OUT, THEN LOG BACK IN AND CLICK THE "WATCH NOW" BUTTON TO WATCH WHAT IS TREASON? #TRAFFICKED
