I Am a Parkland InFLUencer
Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness that spreads from person to person, caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat and lungs. Anyone can get the flu, but some people are at a higher risk of serious health complications. This includes infants and young children, people ages 65 years and older, pregnant women and people with certain health conditions.
The most important way to stay healthy this flu season is by being informed and ensuring you and your family get the flu shot. Getting a flu shot is now more important than ever. Everyone six months or older can receive their flu vaccine to stay protected against the flu.
Learn More, Download and Share
The Importance of the Flu Vaccine. View and download here .
The Top Five Flu Shot Myths. View and download here.
Flu vs COVID. View and download here.
Stop the Flu. View and download here.
Where Can I Get a Flu Shot at Parkland?
Parkland makes it easy to get your flu shot this fall. Patients of all ages can visit one of Parkland’s Community Oriented Primary Care health centers for a flu shot with no appointment necessary on Wednesday, and no cost to you with most insurances. Restrictions may apply.
Flu shots are available during Walk-in Wednesdays at any of the following Parkland Community Clinics :
Bluitt-Flowers Health Center
9 a.m. - noon and 1 - 4 p.m.
Garland Health Center
Southeast Dallas Health Center
Saturday, Sept. 14
9 a.m. - noon
Skyline High School
Saturday, Oct. 5
What are the signs and symptoms of the flu?
The flu can cause mild to severe illness, and at times can lead to death. Some of the symptoms of flu and COVID-19 are similar, such as fever and chills, sore throat, muscle aches, fatigue, cough, headache, and runny or stuffy nose. Some people may have vomiting and diarrhea, though this is more common in children than adults. Unlike the common cold the flu comes on suddenly.
If you begin to experience these symptoms, contact your healthcare provider immediately.
Why do I need a flu shot?
Flu season begins in the fall every year and lasts through winter. The best way to prevent the flu is by receiving an annual flu shot, the sooner the better.
Getting the flu shot helps prevent you from getting sick. Getting sick can cause increase stress, medical expenses or time off from work or school. Every year the flu shot prevents illnesses, hospitalizations and death.
The flu shot helps prevent patients with chronic illnesses from getting the flu. Chronic illnesses like diabetes or heart disease can increase risk of flu complications.
The flu shot can reduce the severity of illness in people who get vaccinated but still get the flu.
The flu shot helps protect pregnant women and their baby from flu illness and hospitalization.
The flu shot can be lifesaving for children.
Be a Parkland InFLUencer and get your flu shot.
When should I get my flu shot?
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that everyone 6 months of age and older get the flu shot in September or October, before the start of the flu season. Don’t worry if you miss the recommended time frame to receive your shot, you should still get it. Experts suggest that adults over 65 and those with weakened immune systems wait until at least mid-September, so that the vaccine’s protection lasts the entire season.
Talk with your healthcare provider if you have additional questions on receiving the flu shot.
Ways to reduce the risk of catching the flu
Health experts stress that the best way to lessen the chances of getting the flu is still the vaccine. Read the following tips to help reduce the risk of catching the flu:
Get a flu shot every year.
Keep your distance from others who are sick.
Stay home when you are sick so that you don’t pass the virus to others.
Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing or sneezing to help keep from spreading germs.
Clean your hands often using soap and water or an alcohol-based hand sanitizer when soap and water are not available.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth.
Practice good health habits. Get plenty of sleep, exercise, manage your stress, drink plenty of fluids and maintain a balanced diet that includes fruits and vegetables.
For more information on flu, visit www.cdc.gov/flu.
Stay Connected
Src Language
Trg Lang
Src Text
Trg Text
Input Vote
