10/04/2024
Visit RealClearBooks & Culture for more insights from the world of books, art, and entertainment.
Cal Newport, The New Yorker
Last spring, a graduate student in social anthropology—let's call him Chris—sat down at his laptop and asked ChatGPT for help with a writing assignment. He pasted a few thousand words, a mix of...
Mirin Fader, The Ringer
Paige Bueckers glances at the legends gracing the imposing navy-blue walls here in the Connecticut women's basketball film room. There's Rebecca Lobo. Maya Moore. Sue Bird. The photos show each of...
Jude Russo, Modern Age
I've decided I do think Francis Ford Coppola's Megalopolis is a good movie. I think that puts me in the distinct minority of reviewers. Don't get me wrong: It's a mess! Everything they say about it...
Ashley Frawley, Compact
It has become commonplace to observe that the right is now the bastion of countercultural provocation. Long associated with stability and the defense of norms, the movement's symbols have...
A. S. Hamrah, Screen Slate
Francis Ford Coppola hardly needs an introduction. As the lion of the New Hollywood, the outline of his career is well known. From work with Roger Corman to his first films in the 1960s, and then his...
Forrest Gander, Orion Magazine
THE FIRST DIRT I tasted was a fistful of siltstone dust outside the house where I was born in the Mojave Desert. My father was rarely around. When she could, my mother took long walks around the...
Thomas Kennerly Wolfe, Jr., was born in 1930 in Richmond, Virginia, raised in an upper-middle-class family that encouraged his intellectual inclinations. After college at Washington and Lee, he...
Craig Nova, The American Scholar
I lived in New York City when it was more violent and dangerous than it is now. Needle Park was still a place where people were killed and women were raped, and the Lower East Side was a place where...
Kathleen Stock, UnHerd
There's a new weapon in the culture wars and its assets are considerable. In America, Republicans have become obsessed with the "conservative hot girl": an unreconstructed, curvaceous and unashamedly...
Alessandra Stanley, Air Mail
Graydon never told us he once slept in a boxcar. Long before he co-founded Spy magazine, became the arbiter of wit and glamour as the editor of Vanity Fair, and went on to create our digital weekly,...
Before Kesha got The Call, she was frolicking naked with her friends off the coast of Zihuatanejo, Mexico—a sun-kissed Lady Godiva on a jet ski, cutting through the ocean waves. Her entourage of 12...
On a Saturday evening in March, 2020, professional athlete Marshall Miller scaled a 2,350-foot tall sandstone monolith in Zion National Park. Once on top, he geared up into a wingsuit, and jumped...
Leave no book lover behind!
Invite a colleague , friend or loved one to receive the RealClearBooks Newsletter today!
Copyright © 2024 RealClearHoldings, All rights reserved.
Northbrook, IL 60062-2733
