Forgot Your Password
Please enter your email address and we will send you a link to reset your password.
Please wait ...
First name
Last name
Apartments
Investment Property
By registering for an account, you accept the Boston Pads terms of use and privacy policy .*
You agree that BostonPads, Jacob Realty, NextGen Realty, Boardwalk Properties, Douglas Paul Real Estate, landlords, and property managers may call or text you about any inquiries you submit through our services, which may involve use of automated means and prerecorded/artificial voices. You do not need to consent as a condition of creating an account on BostonPads.com, renting any property, or buying any other goods or services. Message/data rates may apply.
Register
Property Owner Portal
Log into the Property Owner Portal or learn more about renting your properties with Boston Pads
Log In
Learn more
Advertise Your Property
Log into your Ad Portal Dashboard or learn more about marketing your property with Boston Pads
Location filter
14 Days on Boston Pads
Social Media Sharing Button
Rare opportunity to own a majestic 2 family home located in the heart of historic Dedham Square. This property is currently being use for two professional office suites but has been approved as a 2 family home and has loads potential, including condo conversion!. Note: there is no kitchen in unit 1 and only a half bath in unit 1. The first floor unit consists of 4 rooms, a half bath and rear porch. The second floor unit features a rear porch, full bath, as well as 5 additional rooms including a kitchen. Curb cuts on both Washington St and School St lead to a paved parking lot for 6 cars behind the building. Updates include separate 100-amp electrical services, natural gas heat and hot water system, windows, roof, driveway and parking lot. The property is located in the opportunity filled Central Business Zoning District.
Building Information
Water: City/Town Water, Private
Sewer: City/Town Sewer, Private
Date
Event
Price
0.45mi
34E
0.18mi
34E
0.26mi
MLS ID#: 73296282
© 2024 MLS Property Information Network, Inc.. All rights reserved.
The property listing data and information set forth herein were provided to MLS Property Information Network, Inc. from third party sources, including sellers, lessors and public records, and were compiled by MLS Property Information Network, Inc. The property listing data and information are for the personal, non commercial use of consumers having a good faith interest in purchasing or leasing listed properties of the type displayed to them and may not be used for any purpose other than to identify prospective properties which such consumers may have a good faith interest in purchasing or leasing. MLS Property Information Network, Inc. and its subscribers disclaim any and all representations and warranties as to the accuracy of the property listing data and information set forth herein.
MLS PIN data last updated at 2024-10-04 03:05:00
Contact Us
Boston Pads
"*" indicates required fields
Text me more listings like this!
*You agree to the Boston Pads Terms of Use & Privacy Policy . By choosing to contact a property, you also agree that BostonPads, Jacob Realty, NextGen Realty, Boardwalk Properties, Douglas Paul Real Estate, landlords, and property managers may call or text you about any inquiries you submit through our services, which may involve use of automated means and prerecorded/artificial voices. You don't need to consent as a condition of renting any property, or buying any other goods or services. Message/data rates may apply.
Related Properties
Dedham Multi-Family Home For Sale, Open House: Saturday October 19th, 2024 at 12:00 PM, 4 Beds, 2 Baths, 2 Unit - List Price $839,000
