Description
The Shipyard Tourney is 4 game guarantee tournament featuring ages 10U-14U at the one and only Shipyard Park! Shipyard Park is a World-Class waterfront sports complex located in Charleston, South Carolina. The facility includes 5 State-of-the-Art AstroTurf fields that feature breathtaking views of the water. Space is limited due to the unique facility so please register as soon as possible to ensure your team has a spot. This is one destination tournament you won't want to miss.
Tournament Quick Facts
New 5 AstroTurf field Complex
Baseballs : 3 new baseballs will be provided to umpire before each game
4 Game Guarantee
The Shipyard Park - Charleston, South Carolina
You won’t find another tournament at a location as unique as this! Located in Charleston, South Carolina, Travel & Leisure's #1 destination, the Shipyard is a one of a kind facility. The Southeast's only waterfront baseball complex provides players with a once in a life time game atomosphere. Pair the unique park complex with the delicious barbeque available at the Swing N Swine restaurant and you have an amazing baseball environment. In-state teams from Myrtle Beach, Columbia, Greenville, and Florence will face unique competition, different from the average local tournament! Out of state teams are encouraged to register and attend to help increase the playing field competition!
Shipyard Park Rules
NO METAL SPIKES ALLOWED!! (MOLDED SPIKES ALLOWED) NO SUNFLOWER SEEDS OR GUM ALLOWED!! Teams violating the seeds and metal spike rule will be removed from the Tournament and all future AC Events along with a $300 clean up fee payable to the facility.
Shipyard Park
Coaches: The coach that goes to the meeting at home plate before the game will be considered the head coach for that game. The head coach is the only coach that can talk to an umpire about a call during the game.
(For 9U-12U) While on defense, only one coach is allowed to be outside the dugout. This coach may sit on a bucket, but that coach must not allow himself or the bucket to interfere with any play. If, in the umpire’s judgement, a play is interfered with, the umpire can place runners or assess out(s) based on the interference. The umpire will also restrict that coach to the dugout for the remainder of the game.
(For 13U & above) While on defense, all coaches must remain in the dugout, per NFHS rules.
(In all age groups) While on offense, only two coaches are allowed out of the dugout and must be in their respective coach’s box on the first and third baselines.
Shipyard Park Gate Fee
Adults - $35
Daily Pass :
Adults - $10
PRICE LIST
14U
                                            OPEN - $799.00
About AC Sports
AC Sports began in 2007 as Atlantic Coast Baseball. Located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we saw a need for high quality travel tournaments that offered great competition, communication and a great experience!
Contact Information
