Story Infinite Scroll - News3 v1.0.0 (common)
by Chelsea Hylton, KOMO News Staff
Fri, October 4th 2024 at 1:37 PM
Updated Mon, October 7th 2024 at 5:24 PM
TOPICS:
FEDERAL WAY, Wash.  — Around 100 cats have been rescued from a “biohazardous apartment” in Federal Way and transported to the Humane Society of Tacoma and Pierce County.
According to the Humane Society, an estimated 100 cats were rescued by the Federal Way Animal Control from a vacant property. A two-bedroom, one-bedroom, second-floor apartment unit filled with inches of “excrement covering the floors, no area untouched by cat feces and urine.”
The cats were infested with fleas and did not have access to food or water, the Humane Society said.
“The floor was covered in feces and waste, there was nowhere for them to even step. The animal control agency has been bringing the cats to us as they are able to safely capture them," said Lauren Green with the Humane Society.
The shelter said that as of Wednesday they were caring for 195 cats. By that afternoon, 34 cats that were rescued arrived at the shelter. That number rose to 232 after regular drop-offs by Pierce County residents.
On Thursday, more cats were transported to the shelter. Staff said more cats are expected to arrive.
“This is a massive undertaking and strain on our resources,” says Leslie Dalzell, chief executive officer at the Humane Society for Tacoma & Pierce County. “In addition to the estimated 100 cats coming in as they are safely captured by our animal control partners, we are already caring for nearly 700 animals in our facility and in foster homes. We've had to resort to using temporary kennels to house cats.”
Each cat will undergo a wellness exam, parasite treatment, vaccinations, spay/neuter surgeries and other care before becoming available for adoption.
“We are our community’s pet resource center, providing for animals who need us most. Right now, these cats need us, but we can’t do any of this lifesaving work without our network of supporters,” Dalzell said. “Whether it is donating supplies or opening your heart and home to foster a cat, you can play a vital role in helping animals who need us most.”
Some residents looking to adopt animals shared how heartbreaking it was to hear that these cats were treated that way.
“They’re looking at you to take care of them, and you put them in that kind of situation it’s not right, it’s just not right for any animal," said Glenn Milton, who was at the shelter to adopt an animal.
The Humane Society said three ways people can help is by making monetary donations, donating supplies, or fostering.
