Advertisement
| Updated:
The Princess of Wales has congratulated Sir Ben Ainslie and his team as they became the first Brits to qualify for the America's Cup final in 60 years.
The sailors, backed by billionaire Sir Jim Ratcliffe , beat the Italian Luna Rossa crew to win the challenger series on Friday.
Now for the first time since 1964 a yacht under a British flag will contest the final of the prestigious competition.
Princess Catherine posted on X: 'Congratulations to and the whole INEOS Britannia Team on qualifying for the 37th America's Cup!
'A fantastic display of teamwork, skill and determination. Best of luck for the final challenge!'
She signed off the sweet message of support with her initial 'c'.
Catherine Princess of Wales during day fourteen of The Championships Wimbledon 2024
Ben Ainslie moved to the edge of history by securing victory in the Louis Vuitton Cup
Ainslie's INEOS Britannia will compete against title-holders Emirates Team New Zealand in a best of 17 showdown starting next Saturday.
A victory would be history-making as no British team has ever won the Auld Mug in the 173 years of its existence.
Reacting to Friday's victory, four-time Olympic gold medallist Ainslie said: 'It is a massive day for our team and I am so proud of everyone, not just on the water but on the shore. It is a massive moment.
'We started this team 10 years ago when Britain wasn't even in the America's Cup. Some amazing people came in and supported the team financially and then of course Jim and his INEOS team came in and helped us. This is a huge thank you.
'There is a lot of pressure, a lot of investment and you want to make it count, so I am delighted.'
Their place in the final was secured by a 7-4 win over Luna Rossa after having shared the first eight races across the past fortnight.
Sir Jim Ratcliffe's INEOS are set to contest the final of the America's Cup
The last British skipper to progress this far, Peter Scott, was a Navy hero who spent considerable time trying to prove the Loch Ness Monster was real.
He fell short on both counts. Ainslie's hunt continues.
This is a breaking news story- more to follow
Share or comment on this article: 
                        Kate's sweet message of support for sailors: Princess of Wales congratulates Sir Ben Ainslie and team as they become first Brits to compete in America's Cup final for 60 years
DON'T MISS
DON'T MISS
From the Makers of Candy Crush
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
