The Economic Times daily newspaper is available online now.
SECTIONS
Dera Sacha Sauda asks its followers to vote for BJP
By
AbcSmall
AbcMedium
AbcLarge
Save
Print
Comment
Synopsis
A day after Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim was released on a 20-day parole, the Dera headquarters urged followers to support the BJP. The directive was delivered discreetly at a satsang in Sirsa, urging followers to mobilize additional voters in their colonies.
Agencies
Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh (file photo)
NEW DELHI: A day after Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim walked out of Sunaria jail in Rohtak on a 20-day parole , the Dera headquarters gave a call to followers to support the incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ).
The message was passed on to followers at a satsang hosted at Dera Sacha Sauda headquarters in Sirsa late Thursday night. So far, the directions to followers have always come from the satsang platform openly just days before an assembly election. However, this time, the directives were more muted.
According to highly-placed sources, there was no announcement from the satsang platform but the office-bearers spread across the open courtyard and sat among the satsangis (people attending the gathering) and told them to vote for BJP. An office-bearer, who did not wish to be identified, told ET, “We have also asked the followers to get involved in energising the booth –– every follower should get five more voters living in their colony to cast their vote at the polling station .”
The satsangs at the Sirsa headquarters have changed since the Dera chief was arrested and sentenced to 20 years in prison for raping two of his disciples at the Sirsa headquarters. Now, the active political affairs committee has been disbanded and his office-bearers and followers lead the satsangs. Sources said that after his release, Rahim, who will be staying at his Baghpat ashram , conveyed the message to support BJP to an office-bearer in Sirsa.
The support to BJP is not new. Dera Sacha Sauda, which has a massive following especially among the Dalits in Haryana and neighbouring Punjab and Rajasthan, has openly supported BJP. However, in the run-up to 2019 assembly and Lok Sabha elections, following the 2017 conviction, Rahim’s Dera has not thrown its weight behind any party. Even in the Lok Sabha elections earlier this year, Dera did not give any call and remained distant.
Read More News on
...moreless
Read More News on
...moreless
Top Trending News
MORE
MORE
Top Searched Companies
Top Story Listing
Top Prime Articles
Top Slideshow
Latest News
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Name
Others
X
Limited Access
& personalised newsletters
Login Now
Unlimited Access
Starting @ Rs120/month
in-depth stock reports
ET
Uh-oh! This is an exclusive story available for selected readers only.
Worry not. You’re just a step away.
Sign In to Read for Free
Prime Account Detected!
It seems like you're already an ETPrime member with
Login using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits
Log out of your current logged-in account and log in again using your ET Prime credentials  to enjoy all member benefits.
Sign in & Access ET Prime
To read full story, subscribe to ET Prime
Get Unlimited Access to The Economic Times
₹34 per week
Continue
On ET Prime Membership
Unlock this story and enjoy all members-only benefits.
Subscribe Now
ON ET PRIME MEMBERSHIP
Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year
Why ?
Exclusive Economic Times Stories, Editorials & Expert opinion across 20+ sectors
Stock analysis. Market Research. Industry Trends on 4000+ Stocks
Clean experience with
Exclusive invites to Virtual Events with Industry Leaders
A trusted team of Journalists & Analysts who can best filter signal from noise
​Get 1 Year Complimentary Subscription of TOI+ worth Rs.799/-​
Stories you might be interested in
Subscribe to ourET Investment Opportunities
SUBMIT
