Climate policy and climate science are necessarily joined closely together. But there are good and bad ways of making the connection, and the worst is to tweak the science to say what policy-makers want to hear. We chuckle at the way some condemn earlier societies for the supposed subordination of inquiry to religious dogma and political whim. But the insistence on a drastic policy response to human GHG emissions ought rightly to be driven by a sense of certainty that something bad is happening or is about to. And on that score, as Roger Pielke Jr. wrote recently , “The importance of baselines for expected change came to mind over the weekend when I came across this unvarnished misinformation from an oft-quoted climate scientist: ‘The damaging impacts of climate change, and in particular from more extreme weather events, such as wildfires, floods, heatwaves, more intense hurricanes, are actually in many respects exceeding the predictions made just a decade ago.’” If true it clearly mandates immediate action. Politicians for some reason want it to be true and certainly most of them believe it. But as Pielke Jr. adds, it’s not true. It is flatly contradicted by what we really know about recent weather trends, and by the degree of uncertainty involved.
The claim of course came from none other than Michael Mann whom the Guardian just happened to interview . Of all the scientist joints in all the universities in all the world, they walked into his. And got a two-decker nonsense sandwich. As Pielke Jr. says:
“Ten years is not nearly long enough to detect and attribute damaging impacts from changes in climate, or even to simply detect changes in climate”
And
“On any time scale, the IPCC has not detected or attributed changes in wildfires, floods, or hurricanes (it has for heatwaves, over many decades)”
Now in some sense those two point in opposite directions. If a decade is not nearly long enough, then even many decades is doubtful as a period for signal to emerge from noise with respect to inherently fluctuating phenomena including, we say, heatwaves. (Plus Tony Heller’s archival spelunking strongly suggests that heatwaves were far worse in the United States in the 1930s, and it’s about the only place where systematic record-keeping permits such a firm statement.) But in fact the IPCC has not positively said there’s no change, it says it hasn’t managed to detect anything meaningful either way. Sometimes you just can’t get a reliable answer to a question even if it’s very important to do so.
It is part of a point that gets lost far too often in the debate, especially as the gears mesh or clash over science driving policy. It’s not that the Michael Manns of this world say they know everything is far worse than they ever predicted so we should trust their current predictions, and skeptics such as CDN say no, nothing’s going on. We say we do not know what is happening.
We do not know if the Holocene is winding down into another glaciation, which is unfortunate since if so we face a genuinely existential climate crisis. We do not know if it is continuing to warm in the rebound from the Little Ice Age or leveling off. We do not know if the weather is getting better or worse because of what is or is not happening. And we therefore are trying to stand athwart alarmism yelling Stop.
Max Beran says:
Comment *
Name *
Email *
Website
Δ
Name
First
Last
Email*
Consent*
I consent to the terms of the Privacy Policy . In addition, this site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.*
CAPTCHA
Name
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Subscribe
Δ
search
twitter
facebook
youtube-play
