Concerned about sourcing ingredients for such an exotic cuisine?
You shouldn’t be. If you enjoy making and eating Thai or Vietnamese food, then you will surely enjoy and know how to make Cambodian food.
Cambodia is squeezed in between Thailand and Vietnam so there is a large influence on Cambodian cuisine from both those countries. Throw in China, India and France, who colonized the country and you have a real pot-pouri of styles, ingredients and influences. So, when it comes to food in Cambodia, it is quite eclectic.
You are bound to find amok Cambodian food recipes that will blow you away (Our amok fish recipe included)!
Read on for some more insights about fabulous Cambodian cuisine and our amok Cambodian ingredients. And further on is the recipe for Cambodian fish amok.
If You Love Thai or Vietnamese Food You Will Also Love Cambodian Food Recipes
Traditional Cambodian Dancing
Don’t be put off cooking Cambodian food because you are concerned about sourcing ingredients or because it is a cuisine you don’t hear much about. It is true that there is not much known about Cambodian cuisine and authentic Cambodian food recipes but there are reasons for that. Here are two of them:
Cambodia does not attract the hordes of tourists that flock to Thailand and to a lesser extent Vietnam. Unfortunately, it has not been that long since the country escaped the clutches of the Pol Pot regime and it is still recovering from those horrific days. But the people are wonderful, generous in spirit and very welcoming to guests in their country. Because of the lack of tourists to the country, the word just does not seep out about the wonderful cuisine to the same extent as its neighbors.
Another unfortunate fact of life in Cambodia, is it is almost impossible for a common Cambodian to attain a passport. The cost is prohibitive and it basically disqualifies 99% of Cambodians the opportunity to travel outside their borders. Great cooks don’t have the opportunity to export their wonderful cuisine to the rest of the world. So, you have to visit to try it!
Ready to catch the fish for Cambodian fish amok
Cambodian Ingredients for a Fish Amok Recipe
As for ingredients, do you like Thai food? If so, the ingredients are very similar – if you cook Thai you can cook Cambodian cuisine and enjoy Amok food, too.
Ingredients like lemongrass, garlic, turmeric, coconut milk, kaffir lime leaf, fish sauce, palm sugar and shrimp paste are all very common and they are available now in most supermarkets. But you will also see a greater use of eggs and European vegetables than in Thailand thanks to the French influence.
If you have the opportunity, take a cooking class in Cambodia. You can learn easy Cambodian food recipes by doing so so that you can prepare Cambodian traditional food. They are available in Siem Reap or Phnom Penh. Fish Amok will likely be one of the dishes you learn to cook in the class. But in the meantime, you can use this Cambodian Fish Amok recipe to try it at home.
Cambodian Fish Amok Is The National Food of Cambodia
Fisherman on Tonle Sap Lake
As you would expect with such a large coastline, seafood is very popular and Cambodian fish amok is the most popular of all seafood dishes. Fishing is common on the coastline, and on Tonle Sap Lake and River. You can read more about Tonle Sap and the village along the lake in Angkor Wat, Part 2 .
We had the great pleasure of enjoying a sunset cruise in Kampot , a highlight of our trip. Watching the fishermen prepare their boats for their night’s work was fascinating. After our relaxing river cruise, we enjoyed Cambodian fish amok for dinner. What a superb meal! So, that meal was the inspiration for presenting this Cambodian amok recipe to you.
Serve Cambodian Fish Amok in the traditional way with steamed rice. It truly showcases the great flavors of South East Asia.
And if you ever have the chance of going to Cambodia, jump on it. It is cheaper than in Thailand and Vietnam. And there is way less commercialization. Go before that happens. The people there would truly appreciate it and you will be blown away by the people, the sights like Angkor Wat and the cuisine of course.
Some More Dishes to Add a Little Spice to Your Life
Do you enjoy warming dishes, like this one? If so, you might like these recipes:
Ema Datshi , a cheese chili dish and the national dish of Bhutan .
This Cambodian Fish Amok Will Make You Cook!
This Cambodian Fish Amok Will Make You Cook!
How To Make Cambodian Fish Amok
This Amok powder recipe is an easy and delicious way to enjoy authentic Cambodian cuisine at home!
Enjoy the sensation of making your own Cambodian fish curry paste. Honestly, it is worth it and will add so much to your authentic Cambodian recipes. And then add wonderful ingredients, most from the supermarket or Chinese grocer, to make Cambodian fish amok, the national dish of Cambodia.
Votes: 0 Rating: 0 You:
Rate this recipe!
Print Recipe
This Amok powder recipe is an easy and delicious way to enjoy authentic Cambodian cuisine at home! 

Enjoy the sensation of making your own Cambodian fish curry paste. Honestly, it is worth it and will add so much to your authentic Cambodian recipes. And then add wonderful ingredients, most from the supermarket or Chinese grocer, to make Cambodian fish amok, the national dish of Cambodia.
Servings
Curry Paste
1 stem lemongrass outer layer removed, bottom 3 inches finely sliced
4 cloves garlic sliced
1/2 lb spinach leaves only, or silver beat leaves, thinly sliced
1/2 tbsp palm sugar substitute with brown sugar
Servings: people
Curry Paste
1 stem lemongrass outer layer removed, bottom 3 inches finely sliced
4 cloves garlic sliced
1/2 lb spinach leaves only, or silver beat leaves, thinly sliced
1/2 tbsp palm sugar substitute with brown sugar
Servings: people
Units:
Instructions
Place the sliced lemongrass, galangal, kaffir lime leaves, red chilies, garlic and shallots and pound them until well combined. Then add turmeric and shrimp paste and pound again until smooth.
Heat the oil in a pan or wok over low heat. Add the curry paste and stir until fragrant. Add half the coconut cream and stir to incorporate the paste. Simmer until the coconut cream starts to separate. Add the fish and cook for 1 minute after the coconut cream re-boils. Then add the remaining coconut cream and chicken stock.
Cook on a low heat until the fish is cooked. Meanwhile combine the eggs and fish sauce. Add the egg mixture to the fish curry along with the spinach, palm sugar and a good grind of salt and pepper. Cook for a further 1 minute. Remove from the heat.
Serve with steamed rice and garnish with the red bell pepper and kaffir lime leaves.
Recipe Notes
Anne
April 30, 2017
A piece about 1 inch long is fine. Thanks I have updated the recipe with that information.
September 18, 2016
Jayne, such a great place and people were kind and friendly. Please make the recipe to bring back fond memories.
September 15, 2016
One of the things we love about SE Asian cooking is the attitude of the ingredients. So vibrant.
September 13, 2016
It is a lovely dish and is rightly the national dish. Thanks for your kind comment.
September 12, 2016
Not sure where you live- You can order most of them online if you are in the USA (try Amazon) or try your local Whole Foods if you have one.  An asian or Indian grocery will also sell some of them.
September 12, 2016
If you are in the USA, you can order fresh Kaffir lime leaves on Amazon. And you might try your local Whole Foods if you live near one,  In other parts of the world – Australia, UK, try the grocery store.
September 12, 2016
That is a good summary of Cambodian food. Full of flavor and color. Thanks for your comment.
Leave a Reply
Recipe Rating
Recipe Rating
Recipe Search
Search for:
Popular  Posts
Disclosure
Compass & Fork is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com
Search Compass & Fork
Send
Cancel
