Kemp Injects Politics into Hurricane Recovery: Fair Fight Responds
Atlanta — Today at 3:45 PM , Governor Brian Kemp will be joined by current political candidate Donald Trump at a briefing on Hurricane Helene recovery efforts in Evans, Georgia. The briefing is an official state government event. But, with the inclusion of a candidate who has been politicizing and lying about recovery efforts, and has no official role or responsibility in those recovery efforts, the briefing has clearly become a way to support Trump politically.
Gov. Kemp, along with several other Republican and Democratic governors, expressed his appreciation for the federal government’s response to damage caused by Hurricane Helene, disproving lies from Trump, who falsely claimed on Monday that Gov. Kemp had trouble reaching President Biden.
Trump's Project 2025 would “ break up ” and " commercialize " the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the agency that houses the National Weather Service and provides hurricane forecasting.
Fair Fight CEO Lauren Groh-Wargo responded with the following statement:
“It’s outrageous that Governor Kemp would inject partisan politics into a critical recovery briefing by inviting candidate Trump, who has been spreading lies about Hurricane Helene recovery efforts. This should be a moment focused solely on the needs of Georgians, not to score political points.
“Trump’s history of undermining disaster response efforts and spreading misinformation only makes his presence at this briefing more damaging. Along with Trump’s lies, this shows just how desperate he is to win Georgia and how worried he is about losing the state in November.”
Trump’s Lies About Hurricane Helene Recovery Efforts:
Trump lied about federal aid being decided on a political basis . The Biden-Harris Administration has taken a whole-of-government response to Hurricane Helene, which is not dependent on political affiliation in any way, shape, or form.
Trump lied about Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp not speaking with President Biden about recovery needs when the governor had spoken to the president the day prior.
Trump lied by saying “ nobody thought ” a hurricane like Helene could hit so “late in the [hurricane] season,” but it's currently peak hurricane season.
Key Facts on Trump’s Handling of Disaster Recovery While in Office:
Trump failed to fulfill North Carolina’s funding request for Hurricane Matthew recovery In 2017.
Trump Administration officials blocked Puerto Rico from receiving hurricane aid in 2017.
Trump tried to withhold California fire aid because of politics in 2018.
Trump altered an NOAA hurricane forecast map to try and validate his false tweet, also known as 'sharpiegate.'
While President, Trump issued a memo directing his administration to find federal funds that could be cut from cities run by Democrats.
