In Brief: Rocky Mountain Power Sending Wyoming Workers To Help With Hurricane Relief
Rocky Mountain Power will send 23 employees from Wyoming, Idaho and Utah to help reconnect the power grid after Hurricane Helene.
RJ
October 04, 20242 min read
Mary Grace and her dog, Marley, walk around the Biltmore Village in the aftermath of Hurricane Helene in Asheville, North Carolina. According to reports, more than 60 people have been killed across the South due to the storm, and millions have been left without power. North Carolina has been approved for a Federal Major Disaster Declaration. (Photo by Sean Rayford, Getty Images)
The deadliest storm since Hurricane Katrina will be getting an assist from Wyoming.
Rocky Mountain Power is sending 23 of its employees, along with 14 trucks and associated heavy equipment, to help restore power to communities affected by Hurricane Helene. Pacific Power, RMP’s sister company, will also deploy four crews from Oregon.
The employees and equipment come from Wyoming, Utah and Idaho.
“Our crews are fully prepared and ready to respond as they work tirelessly through the deployment to restore power to customers in Georgia and to support our fellow line-crews across the affected states,” Rocky Mountain Power Vice President of Operations Chris Spencer said in a media release. “Disasters can happen anywhere and part of being a good neighbor is answering the call to help.”
The assistance was in answer to a request for mutual aid from Georgia Power, which is part of a nationwide network of utilities that have agreed to provide each other assistance during emergencies and disasters.
In all, 50,000 electric utility workers from 40 states, the District of Columbia and Canada are responding to help with the devastation left behind by Hurricane Helene, a Category 4 storm that hit 10 states with up to 140 mph wind when it landed in Florida on Sept. 26.
According to the National Hurricane center, effects from Helene extended as far as 400 miles from its landfall point in Florida’s Big Bend region.
Deadly and destructive flooding followed in its wake, engulfing whole towns and leaving thousands of people without power or drinkable water.
The death toll has so far surpassed 220, according to the most recent reports. That number is expected to rise as rescue crews continue the search.
Renée Jean can be reached at renee@cowboystatedaily.com .
In case you missed it
2024 © Cowboy State Daily
