Cancel
An icon of a circle with a diagonal line across.
Caret
An icon of a block arrow pointing to the right.
Email
Facebook
Google
Linked In
Logout
Telephone
Tick
Is Public
Is Not Public
An icon of a human eye and eyelashes with a diagonal line through it.
Pause Icon
Quote Mark
Folder
Breaking
An icon of an exclamation mark on a circular background.
Camera
Caret
Clock
Close
Close Icon
An icon used to represent where to interact to collapse or dismiss a component
Comment
Comments
Comments
Ellipsis
Envelope
Facebook
Camera
Home
Instagram
LinkedIn
Magnifying Glass
Search Icon
A magnifying glass icon that is used to represent the function of searching.
Menu
Hamburger Menu Icon
Next
Notice
Previous
Rating
Tag
Twitter
Video Camera
Speech Bubble Icon
WhatsApp
Information
Plus
Success Tick Timeout
Loading Spinner
Facebook Messenger
Facebook
Facebook Messenger
LinkedIn
WhatsApp Messenger
Email
Copy link
Skip Menu
The latest Moray planning round-up is here.
Share
Flooding objection to Benriach Distillery’s visitor centre plans dropped and work planned at Elgin town centre hotel
Share via
Drawing impression of visitor centre expansion.   Image: Mhorvan Park/ DC Thomson/Design
Welcome to Planning Ahead – our weekly round-up of the latest proposals across Moray.
Grab a cuppa and enjoy this week’s read which is packed with interesting plans.
We share how SEPA bosses had previously objected to Benriach Distillery’s visitor centre expansion plans.
Next steps are revealed for new home with stunning Lossiemouth East Beach views.
But first, we look at work at a Elgin town centre hotel.
SUBMITTED: Work at Elgin town centre hotel
Sunninghill Hotel pictured. Image: Sandy McCook/DC Thomson
They transformed it into the functioning 21st century hotel and restaurant which it is today.
The Sunninghill Hotel remains family-run with son Alastair joining his parents in the business alongside fellow director Jonathan Orr.
The building still contains the original 19th century grand Elgin family home.
Sunninghill Hotel directors Alastair Ross and Jonathan Orr. Image: Sandy McCook/DC Thomson
Now the 27-room hotel’s owners want to make alterations to bedrooms.
Wittets Architects is representing the hotel in the process.
SUBMITTED: End for Lossie house to be replaced by new modern home
Lossiemouth East Beach Bridge. Image Kenny Elrick/DC Thomson
The current home in Lossiemouth will be demolished. Image: Google Maps
It has taken three years for Mr and Mrs W Stennett’s proposals to get the green light.
This comes after a previous refusal at a planning appeal hearing and a design eventually being agreed with planning officials.
The pair had previously wanted to renovate the existing house.
However, the discovery of questionable foundations led to the decision that demolition was the only option.
According to architects CM Design, the new home will honour its unique location and setting.
Drawing impression of the new Lossie home.
Now a building warrant has been submitted to demolish the existing home.
According to the papers, tearing down the building will cost around £5,000.
SUBMITTED: Latest on Benriach Distillery expansion plans
Benriach Distillery. Image: Google Maps
It includes a bar, tasting lounge and retail space.
What are the proposals?
The Kentucky-based drinks giant is looking to build an extension to the visitor centre.
It will contain two tasting rooms that can be used as a hub for training sessions and seminars with 20 more seats.
Bosses say the flexibility of the spaces are designed to accommodate a variety of events and ‘enhance overall visitor engagement’.
Benriach Distillery.
The facility will also include a new welcome area, reception, shop and updated toilet facilities.
This new visitor centre will aim to host tours of between 8 to 12 people at alternating times throughout the day.
Another drawing impression. Image: Loader Monteith Architects
What is the latest?
Drawing impression of Benriach Distillery extension. Image: Loader Monteith Architects
It shows the flow paths from any overtopping of Longmorn Burn at the site would likely not impact the proposed extension.
And instead flow onto the grass area to the south of the road.
Environmental chiefs have advised using flood-resistant and durable materials, along with construction methods, in the final design of the development.
They also recommend raising the floor levels above those shown in the site plans to reduce any remaining flood risk.
APPROVED: New whisky purpose for Forres industrial unit
View from the sky of Greshop Road.
The volume of alcohol being stored will be between 1,000 and 1,500 tonnes.
Therefore, it is below the volume requiring Hazardous Substances Consent.
There will be no external alterations to the building, existing access, parking or drainage to the site.
Also, a pilates and physiotherapy studio attached to the existing building does not form part of the approved plans and will be retained for that existing use.
The firm’s plans to breathe new life into Coleburn Distillery
Coleburn Distillery pictured. Image: Jason Hedges/DC Thomson
This was after years of work behind the scenes.
My coverage of work at Coleburn Distillery. Image: Roddie Reid/ DC Thomson
In January, we revealed planning chiefs had approved a building warrant for work to go-ahead to turn a unused piggery building into a bistro.
There will be seating inside and outside.
This will be the first part of the hospitality at the whisky resort.
Drawing of the Coleburn Distillery new bistro we previously revealed.
Are you going to be submitting interesting plans? Get in touch at sean.mcangus@ajl.co.uk
Latest Moray planning roundups:
Exclusive to our subscribers
More from Moray
Conversation
Comments are currently disabled as they require cookies and it appears you've opted out of cookies on this site. To participate in the conversation, please adjust your cookie preferences in order to enable comments.
Flooding objection to Benriach Distillery’s visitor centre plans dropped and work planned at Elgin town centre hotel
Breaking
