Book Tour + #Giveaway: Off Edge by Addison Brae @AddisonBrae1 @RABTBookTours
Young Adult Contemporary
Date Published: 09-26-2024
Publisher: Black Rose Writing
Do you know what it's like to win an Olympic gold, then have it stripped
    away? I do.
Gold is every figure skater's life dream. At fifteen, I experienced the
    thrill of wearing the medal for a few minutes until judges accuse me of
    being too young to be eligible. That's when I realize my father's ultimate
    lie could cost more than my title.
During our daring escape from Russia, I pressure my coach to tell the truth
    about my adoption. But the quad combination and two world titles aren't
    enough to keep the scandal from erasing my career and identity. Disgraced,
    disqualified, and devastated, I can't face a rink, fans, or daily life. My
    controlling dad's betrayal lights a fire to break free from his bad
    decisions. My best friend and a journalist who will tell my story step in to
    stop the downward spiral and help me uncover my past.
The story of Docia's fierce determination to discover her true identity,
    unerase her career, and find the passion to skate again will engage teen
    readers, figure skating fans, and anyone who's ever experience betrayal from
    someone close.
Interview with Addison Brae
Have you read
	anything that made you think differently about fiction?
Good question,
	Nancy. The Anne of Green Gables series by Lucy Maud Montgomery was
	one my first loves because spunky Anne Shirley always overstepped
	boundaries and questioned the rules. I’m certain her books
	inspired the strong but very human heroines readers find in my
	novels.
How do you
	select the names of your characters?
The protagonist in
	Off Edge is Docia. This is a name I love as much as its owner, one
	of my longest and dearest friends who allowed me to borrow her name
	for this book. It has an Eastern European sound and fits this
	character perfectly. For other characters, their names develop with
	their personalities. Occasionally, I go to the baby’s name lists
	from the time the character was born for inspiration.
Do you hide any
	secrets in your books that only a few people will find?
Haha! I’ll never
	tell!
What was your
	hardest scene to write?
That’s a tough
	one. While there were a few, there’s a scene in Off Edge where
	Docia faces the possibility of losing the one adult she still
	trusts. This isn’t long after finding out her parents betrayed
	her…and losing her Olympic gold medal because of the betrayal.
	Docia’s spirits plummet. She must reach deep inside for the
	strength to face what might happen alone. I still shed tears when I
	read that part.
What were your
	goals and intentions in this book, and how well do you feel you
	achieved them?
Off Edge has strong
	messages of acceptance and the importance of a supportive family in
	helping teens, girls especially, grow up with confidence and a
	powerful sense of self. The story also advocates allowing those who
	are adopted to know their truth. I hope this novel allows readers to
	better understand and support adoption and helps adopted children
	feel like they’re not alone in their fight to learn their story.
What inspired
	you to write Off Edge?
My dad told me
	about a dream where a young Russian champion figure skater died in a
	motorcycle crash and left her baby daughter an orphan. He was kind
	enough to let me expand the dream into a novel called Off Edge.
Can you tell us
	a little bit about what you have planned for the future?
I have two works in
	progress. One is a new adult thriller that speculates how
	people and relationships are affected in a near-future society where
	everyone is immersed in artificial intelligence and social media.
	The other is also young adult contemporary fiction where a
	15-year-old finds her mom’s teenage diary and discovers what she
	suspects is the reason she abandoned her and her father when she was
	a baby.
Can you tell us
	a little bit about the characters in Off Edge?
Sure, Nancy. For
	only fifteen, Docia, the protagonist, is very mature. As a
	world-class athlete she no longer attends school. Her controlling,
	narcissistic dad orchestrated her life while failing at many of his
	own goals. Readers go on Docia’s journey as she builds the
	strength and confidence to fight back and prove she can make her own
	choices. Her best friends Lilly and Diego along with a reporter who
	will tell Docia’s story, are her loyal support system through it
	all.
What did you
	enjoy most about writing this book?
I never had the
	opportunity to ice skate when I was growing up. I took lessons and
	competed as an adult – but nothing anywhere near the Olympics.
	Writing Off Edge gave me the chance to take readers out on the ice
	in front of millions of people – and the good and bad of public
	life – that most of us will never experience.
About the Author
Addison Brae lives in Dallas, Texas on the edge of downtown. As a child,
    she was constantly in trouble for hiding under the bed to read when she was
    supposed to be napping. She has been writing since childhood starting with
    diaries, letters, and short stories. She now writes new adult and adult
    speculative and romantic suspense, and young adult contemporary fiction.
    Addison’s still addicted to reading and enjoys jogging in her
    neighborhood park, binge-watching TV series, vintage clothing, and hanging
    out with her artistic other half and their geriatric kitten Lucy.
Contact Links
Jean Book Nerd
Subscribe
GFC Followers
October 1
Release Blitz
Release Blitz
November 4
Amazon Kindle Fire
Amazon Gift Cards
