For over a decade, Debbie’s Dream Foundation has advocated for stomach cancer research, prevention, and early detection. What started with fewer than 50 advocates in 2014 has become a powerful movement, with nearly 150 passionate voices standing on Capitol Hill earlier this year, pushing for life-saving progress.
Our efforts have led to breakthroughs like Dr. Valerie O’Brien’s discovery of how H. pylori leads to gastric cancer , proving that advocacy and adequate funding make all the difference. By joining us for the 13th Annual Capitol Hill Advocacy Day on February 23-25, 2025, you can make your voice heard and help us continue pioneering change.
Please stand with us, fight for research, and advocate for a future where stomach cancer is a thing of the past.
DDF Leads Request to White House for Stomach Cancer Proclamation
DDF, joined by 17 other organizations, sent a letter on October 1 to President Biden requesting a White House proclamation declaring November National Stomach Cancer Awareness Month. The letter also requested lighting the White House periwinkle as part of the “The Power of Periwinkle” global illumination campaign. Click below to read the letter.
On August 15, 2024, DDF joined 26 organizations in a letter to EviCore — a laboratory benefit manager — asking the company to revise its coverage policy for genetic cancer testing. EviCore’s genetic testing policy for hereditary cancer (or cancer susceptibility) aligns with the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines, except for its stringent interpretation of the “most informative family member” recommendation. Overly burdensome coverage requirements impede the diagnosis of hereditary cancer mutations in patients and their family members. Click below to read the letter.
DDF Endorses Stomach Cancer Bill
Debbie’s Dream Foundation gave full support to a new bill in the U.S. House of Representatives introduced by Reps. Yadira Caraveo (D-CO) and Joe Wilson (R-SC) that calls on the National Cancer Institute to issue a review and report on, among other things, screening guidelines for individuals at high-risk for stomach cancer.
“Through research, awareness, and an unwavering commitment from diverse stakeholders, we can end stomach cancer as we know it today,” said Andrea Eidelman, Chief Executive Officer of Debbie’s Dream Foundation: Curing Stomach Cancer (DDF). “We applaud Rep. Joe Wilson and Rep. Yadira Caraveo for their leadership to advance this vision."
DDF Applauds H. Pylori Language in Senate NDAA
Debbie’s Dream Foundation sent a letter to Senate Armed Services Committee leaders in support of language in the Senate Fiscal Year 2025 National Defense Authorization Act requiring the Department of Defense to issue a report on a plan for H. pylori testing for certain members of the Armed Services. The inclusion of the language follows a DDF request to congressional lawmakers earlier this year to mandate an H. pylori testing and treatment program for at-risk military service members. Click the button below to read DDF’s support letter.
Record Number of Lawmakers Sign Stomach Cancer Letter
This year, DDF advocates secured 111 House and 20 Senate lawmakers on letters to the Appropriations Committees requesting that stomach cancer remain eligible for research funding under the Department of Defense’s Peer Reviewed Cancer Research Program (PRCRP) for Fiscal Year 2025. The letters were led by Rep. Lois Frankel (D-FL), Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), and Sen. Maize Hirono (D-HI).
Click the buttons below to read the Senate and House letters.
About Our 12th Annual Stomach Cancer Capitol Hill Advocacy Day
Our 12th Annual Stomach Cancer Capitol Hill Advocacy Day was a HUGE success! As we fondly look back on the incredible moments of the three-day event (February 5-7, 2024), we want to express our deepest gratitude to everyone who made this event a resounding success! Advocates, sponsors, and supporters joined forces, creating an unstoppable force for stomach cancer awareness.
Advocacy at It's Finest: Over 149 passionate advocates gathered in Washington, D.C., for three days of impactful meetings, sharing stories and advocating for crucial funding and awareness. Their dedication and resilience shone brightly, even in the face of the heartbreaking news of country music legend Toby Keith's passing from stomach cancer.
Honoring Congressional Champions: A heartfelt salute to our Congressional Champions, The Honorable Angie Craig of Minnesota and The Honorable Joe Wilson of South Carolina. Their unwavering support in Congress has significantly contributed to the fight against stomach cancer.
Advocacy Asks: Advocates passionately championed key asks for FY'24, urging Congress to pass the budget, emphasizing the need to Keep stomach Cancer on the PRPCP list for FY'25, and advocating for a funding increase in FY'25 for the NIH/NCI. Patient
Advocate Retreat: The 2nd Annual Patient Advocate Retreat featured informative sessions by experts in integrative medicine, nutrition, and art therapy. A special thank you to Dr. Michael Cusnir (Medical Oncologist), Mary-Eve Brown (Clinical Oncology Dietician Specialist), Emily Lipson (Art Therapist), and Emmy-nominated Chef Nathan Lyon, who teamed up with Mary-Eve Brown for an in-person cooking demo, adding a delicious and informative touch to the experience.
We extend heartfelt gratitude to our sponsors who made this event possible:
Advocacy Day Silver Sponsors: Merck & Co., Inc. and Amgen 2nd Annual Advocate Retreat Gold Sponsors: Astellas and Merck 2nd Annual Advocate Retreat Silver Sponsors: Amgen and Jazz Pharmaceuticals 2nd Annual Advocate Retreat Bronze Sponsor: Taiho Oncology 2nd Annual Advocate Retreat Advocacy Sponsor: No Stomach for Cancer 2nd Annual Advocate Retreat Supporting Sponsor: Wild Birds Unlimited
Your unwavering support propels us forward in our mission to find a cure for stomach cancer.
Together, we are making a difference!
Contact us to be a sponsor, volunteer, attend, and for more information at (954) 475-1200 or Events@DebbiesDream.org
Have Curing Stomach Cancer Month Declared In Your State
Advocacy - Lend Your Voice To The Fight
Contact Your Local Officials
Advocacy - Lend Your Voice to the Fight
Most people don't know that the majority of cancer research is paid for by the federal government and that your U.S. Senators and Representatives get to decide how much is spent each year on cancer research. The decisions the federal government makes about spending levels are the biggest determinant of how much stomach cancer research is done in any given year.
Now that you know these important facts, get involved by telling Congress exactly what you think about the importance of stomach cancer research. Keep reading to learn how you can accomplish this important step toward helping all stomach cancer patients.
Advocate For Increased Federal Funding For Research You can help get increased federal funding for stomach cancer research by contacting your elected officials. We at Debbie's Dream Foundation are bringing attention to the lack of research funding for stomach cancer and to raise awareness about the disease. Be the voice for stomach cancer patients who can't speak for themselves!
2014 Stomach Cancer Capitol Hill Advocacy Day Debbie's Dream Foundation: Curing Stomach Cancer held the second Stomach Cancer Capitol Hill Advocacy Day in February 2014. Fifty seven advocates from sixteen states and Canada attended over seventy meetings on the hill which educated legislators about the need for stomach cancer to be a higher funding priority.
2013 Stomach Cancer Capitol Hill Advocacy Day Debbie's Dream Foundation: Curing Stomach Cancer held the first ever Stomach Cancer Capitol Hill Advocacy Day in May 2013. Thirty advocates from sixteen states and Canada attended 61 meetings on the hill which educated legislators about stomach cancer and resulted in a letter from 39 Representatives in the US House and a letter from 5 US Senators to the National Cancer Institute urging that stomach cancer be a higher funding priority.
Debbie's Dream Foundation Government Affairs & Advocacy Office Two South University Drive, Suite 326 Plantation, FL 33324 Toll Free Office: (855) 475-1200(855) 475-1200 FREE Toll Free Fax: (855) 475-1201
For questions about ways to get involved or for more information, please e-mail us at Events@DebbiesDream.org .
Connecting with Your Officials on Social Media
Its important to connect with your officials on social media. Click on the links below to see the social media accounts for your Senators and United States House of Representative:
http://govsm.com/w/House - United States House of Representatives list
Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you have imagined.
- Henry David Thoreau
Resources
Staff
Uncategorized
