Back
Book an Appointment
Welcome to our online booking site. Please note that online booking is not available for some practitioners/appointment types. Please call the clinic to book these appointments. If you are unable to find an appointment online, or if you are unsure of which type of appointment to book, please call the clinic at 519-662-4441 for assistance.
CANCELLATION POLICY If you need to change an appointment for any reason, we require 24-hours/one complete business day’s notice. Appointment changes will only be accepted Monday to Friday during business hours.  Calling or emailing outside of weekday business hours does not allow us to fill that timeslot allocated to your care. IMPORTANT NOTE - Weekends and Statutory Holidays do not count as a business day.
By booking online, you confirm that you have read and agree to the above.
Thank you and we look forward to seeing you soon.
The NHWC Team
A large majority of patients who seek chiropractic care do so for complaints of the musculoskeletal system (joints, muscles, tendons, nerves and bones). Our chiropractors provide diagnosis, treatment and management of these complaints. There are many different chiropractic techniques that can be employed to help people address their individual musculoskeletal complaints. Our New Hamburg Chiropractors utilize an integrated approach to treatment that is tailored to each specific individual.
Book by Practitioner
Registered Massage Therapy
Massage Therapy is the hands-on treatment of the soft tissues in the body including muscles, tendons, ligaments, and joints. It is an effective treatment approach that helps alleviate soft tissue discomfort that may arise from injury, muscular and joint overuse, repetitive strain, and chronic pain. Our New Hamburg Massage Therapy services can be therapeutically beneficial for people of all ages
Book by Practitioner
Cupping Massage Therapy
Cupping Therapy utilizes negative pressure, creating suction to lift the connective tissue, rather than compress it down. The suction created by the cups releases tight/rigid tissues, loosens adhesions, and draws stagnant blood and metabolic waste from deep tissue to more superficial layers of tissue, where it can easily be flushed out of the body via the circulatory and lymphatic systems. This... Read More
Cupping Therapy utilizes negative pressure, creating suction to lift the connective tissue, rather than compress it down. The suction created by the cups releases tight/rigid tissues, loosens adhesions, and draws stagnant blood and metabolic waste from deep tissue to more superficial layers of tissue, where it can easily be flushed out of the body via the circulatory and lymphatic systems. This simultaneously allows new blood flow and nutrients into previously-stagnant areas. There are “suction marks” that can occur from the cupping treatments. These are not bruises, they are metabolic waste and stagnant blood that have been freed from the underlying tissue and brought to the surface to be flushed out. The marks can last anywhere from a few hours to a couple of weeks and should not be tender to touch.
Book by Practitioner
Physiotherapy
Physiotherapists are regulated health care professionals with a significant role in health promotion and treatment of injury and disease. They work to restore pain free movement by combining their in-depth knowledge of the body and how it works with specialized hands-on clinical skills to assess and treat symptoms of illness, injury or disability. Physiotherapy utilizes various treatment techni... Read More
Physiotherapists are regulated health care professionals with a significant role in health promotion and treatment of injury and disease. They work to restore pain free movement by combining their in-depth knowledge of the body and how it works with specialized hands-on clinical skills to assess and treat symptoms of illness, injury or disability. Physiotherapy utilizes various treatment techniques including manual therapy and rehabilitative exercise prescription to help you become more functional in your daily activities. *PLEASE NOTE, FOR CONCUSSION THERAPY BOOK WITH ALI DINGS, PT*
Book by Practitioner
Pelvic Floor Physiotherapy
Pelvic Floor Physiotherapy focuses on the treatment involving both the internal and external pelvic muscles and joints.  These tissues are extremely important in providing support and stability to our pelvic girdle. When the system is not functioning optimally, it can lead to issues such as incontinence, pelvic pain, sexual dysfunction, prolapse and more.  **PLEASE NOTE OUR THERAPIST ONLY TREAT... Read More
Pelvic Floor Physiotherapy focuses on the treatment involving both the internal and external pelvic muscles and joints.  These tissues are extremely important in providing support and stability to our pelvic girdle. When the system is not functioning optimally, it can lead to issues such as incontinence, pelvic pain, sexual dysfunction, prolapse and more.  **PLEASE NOTE OUR THERAPIST ONLY TREATS FEMALES.
Book by Practitioner
Naturopathic Doctors assist patients of all ages in disease prevention and improving overall health through stimulating the natural healing power of the body. Naturopathic Doctors use conventional and naturopathic diagnostic tools for assessing health concerns and determining the most appropriate treatment program.
Book by Practitioner
Our Clinical Social Work and Counselling services provide a variety of areas of expertise to help individuals and families with matters such as child and adult mental health, depression, anxiety, addictions, domestic violence, child abuse, custody and access disputes, Motor Vehicle Accident (MVA) rehabilitation and chronic pain just to name a few. Recovery is a subjective experience, and depend... Read More
Our Clinical Social Work and Counselling services provide a variety of areas of expertise to help individuals and families with matters such as child and adult mental health, depression, anxiety, addictions, domestic violence, child abuse, custody and access disputes, Motor Vehicle Accident (MVA) rehabilitation and chronic pain just to name a few. Recovery is a subjective experience, and depending on the circumstance, a combination of interventions and modalities that best suit the specific needs of an individual can be used during treatment sessions.
Book by Practitioner
The perfect gift for any occasion
Create a gift card code you can send to a friend or loved one for products or services at New Hamburg Wellness Centre.
Physiotherapist (BA, BSc (PT)
Jere graduated from the University of Western Ontario in 1987 with a Bachelor of Arts in Physical Education, with a concentration in Athletic Injuries. Upon graduating he pursued a career in home building/renovating. Following a few work injuries, he returned to Queens University to pursue a Bachelor of Science Degree in Physical Therapy (Physiotherapy), graduating in 1993.
After a short period of time in the hospital setting, Jere moved to the outpatient clinical setting. Working in Parry Sound, Simcoe and Stratford, Jere continued his career focusing on orthopaedic injuries from sports, workplace injuries, and motor vehicle accidents. An interest in motor control lead him to working with adult CVA (stroke) and geriatric patients.
For the past 16 years Jere has been working in Wilmot Township providing homecare physiotherapy. Jere has developed an expertise with post surgical candidates, primarily joint replacements. He sees patients with multiple neurological conditions (CVA, multiple sclerosis, ALS) as well, he treats numerous respiratory conditions (COPD, asthma, pneumonia). Jere is also an ADP (Assistive Devices Program) authorizer for mobility devices (rollator walkers only).
Personally, Jere lives with his wife in St. Marys, Ontario. He has two adult children.
Alicia (Ali) Dings
Registered Physiotherapist (BSc (Kin), MSc (PT)
Ali graduated from the University of Waterloo with a Bachelor of Science Honours Kinesiology Degree then went on to work as a Registered Kinesiologist for four years. Passionate about the Physiotherapy profession, Ali went on to pursue her Master’s Degree in Physical Therapy at the University of Western Ontario. She is certified in Acupuncture and Dry Needling techniques and has multiple Advanced Manual Therapy certifications. To provide the best care Ali uses a combination of manual therapy, exercise, education and acupuncture/modalities, ensuring she identifies the root of the problem to better treat the condition at hand as well as prevent future issues. She takes a client-centered approach to create individualized treatment plans and takes the time to make sure her clients fully understand their diagnosis and how they can work with her to find a solution.
Ali takes pride in offering a comfortable, clean and cheerful environment at the New Hamburg Wellness Centre to provide a lasting positive impression for her clients. With her deep understanding of musculoskeletal anatomy and biomechanics, she is adept at addressing a wide range of orthopaedic conditions including spinal pain, joint pain, sports injuries, arthritic conditions, pre and post surgical rehab and preventative care. She also has extensive experience treating pre/post surgical knee and hip replacements.
While growing up in Belleville Ali was a National level Power Tumbling athlete, competing for Team Canada for 6 years. Naturally she gravitated towards the coaching role where she worked as a Gymnastics and Power Tumbling coach for 15 years. At the University of Waterloo she was a Varsity Track athlete, and now stays active through challenging herself in Triathlons and Half Marathons in the summertime.
ALI DINGS


  Registered Physiotherapist (BSc (Kin), MSc (PT)


Ali graduated from the University... Read More
Christine Ecclestone
Pelvic Floor Physiotherapist
Christine completed her Bachelor of Science Co-op degree in Kinesiology at the University of Waterloo.  She then went on to complete her Masters of Physical Therapy at the University of Western Ontario. Christine has a special interest in women’s health and decided to pursue becoming a pelvic floor physiotherapist. She has completed additional course work focusing on pelvic pain, incontinence, pre-natal and post-partum care as well as diastasis recti.
Christine is passionate about functional movement patterns and their impact on pain. She will work with her patients as a team to develop an individualized treatment plan to help them achieve their rehabilitation goals. She has an extensive sports background having grown up as a competitive gymnast, and transitioned into coaching gymnastics for 5 years. Outside of work, Christine is an avid Cross-fitter with a personal interest in health, fitness, nutrition and travel.
CHRISTINE ECCLESTONE


  Registered Physiotherapist (PT, MPT, BSc Kin)
  Pelvic Floor Physiothera... Read More
Samantha Eckert
Registered Massage Therapist (RMT)
Samantha graduated from the Massage Therapy program at Westervelt College, Kitchener campus, in 2021, and is a member in good standing with the College of Massage Therapists of Ontario (CMTO).
Samantha is knowledgeable and experienced in a wide range of techniques including: Swedish massage, myofascial release, trigger point therapy, deep tissue therapy, and lymphatic drainage. She has a special interest in treating back, neck, and gluteal pain, as well as providing prenatal and postpartum massage.
Samantha’s welcoming, supportive and empathetic personality makes her a great fit as an RMT. She understands the connection between physical and mental health, and enjoys providing a calm, healing environment where her clients can decompress while receiving a therapeutic treatment. She is particularly skilled at crafting treatments that are specifically tailored for the unique needs of each individual, while ensuring that they are relaxed and comfortable.
Dr. Melissa Hamilton
Master of Science (MSc) in Human Health and Nutritional Science
Contemporary Medical Acupuncture Provider
Resident of the Royal College of Chiropractic Sports Sciences (Canada)
Dr. Hamilton completed her undergraduate Human Kinetics degree at the University of Guelph with Honours before continuing to pursue her Master of Science degree in Human Health and Nutritional Sciences. She successfully defended her thesis at the University of Guelph in 2015. While completing these two degrees, she worked in the fitness industry as a weight room supervisor, personal trainer and health coach. She continued to work full time in the fitness industry for two years following her studies before she made the decision to pursue Chiropractic as her final career choice.
Dr. Hamilton attended the Canadian Memorial Chiropractic College (CMCC) and graduated in 2021 with clinical honours. Upon graduation she was accepted into the Sports Residency program of the Royal College of Chiropractic Sports Sciences where she will continue to learn about fitness and sport, conduct research, and work with athletes. She has also completed post-graduate training in Contemporary Medical Acupuncture from McMaster University and is a Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS) through the National Strength and Conditioning Association. She is a certified Functional Range and Conditioning Mobility Specialist (FRCms), and Graston Soft Tissue Therapy provider. She also holds certifications in muscle activation and palpation techniques, postpartum rehabilitation and Sportside Medical EFR.
Dr. Hamilton’s extensive education has given her the tools to provide exceptional patient centred care. She uses an evidence-informed approach in diagnosing muscle and joint conditions, along with developing a plan of management and treatment plan. Her clinical experiences have ranged from injury prevention, to working with chronic pain patients at St. Michaels Hospital in Toronto. She is well equipped to deal with a wide range of conditions such as back pain, neck pain, hip and shoulder pain, ankle sprains, carpal tunnel and more. She also has a special interest in female health and treating Temporomandibular Joint Disorder (jaw pain). Her treatment style includes a combination of manual therapy involving chiropractic joint manipulation, joint mobilizations, and a variety of soft tissue therapy techniques. She puts a large emphasis on patient empowerment through self management techniques such as progressive stretches and strengthening exercises. She is also capable of utilizing acupuncture, electro-therapeutic modalities, and custom orthotics when indicated.
Dr. Laura Hoffmann
DR. LAURA HOFFMANN - Naturopathic Doctor (ND)
As a naturopath, Dr. Laura Hoffmann uses an evidence-based approach in her practice by looking at lab work to understand and create unique and personalized treatment plans. She utilizes treatments such as nutritional counselling, supplements, lifestyle counselling, hormone replacement therapy, vitamin B12 injections, acupuncture and more to help her patients live their best and healthiest lives.
Dr. Hoffmann takes a comprehensive approach in hormone management and treating perimenopause, PCOS, PMS, endometriosis, fertility, pregnancy, and postpartum. She has a special interest in menopause hormone therapy and has completed advanced training in safety and prescribing. She is licensed to prescribe bio-identical hormone therapy, including estrogen, progesterone, and desiccated thyroid.
Healthy aging and awareness of health risks is important to Dr. Hoffmann. Metabolic health assessments with Dr. Hoffmann may include screening for insulin resistance, diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, chronic inflammation, liver disease, thyroid disease, and more. She will create personalized plans that focus on both prevention and treatment, and any treatments given are safe to take with any medications you may be on.
Dr. Hoffmann is licensed to offer vitamin injections done intramuscularly. She offers vitamin B12 and vitamin D injections for clients that have deficiencies, and may require this type of support. It is a great option to correct deficiencies with those who have poor absorption, or who are on medications that deplete vitamin B12 (such as metformin, and acid reflux medications).
Born and raised in Stratford, she now lives in Kitchener with her husband and 2 young boys. It is truly an honour for her to support patients on their path to wellness and serve New Hamburg and the Region of Waterloo community.
Martina Hungerbuehler
Registered Massage Therapist (RMT)
Martina was born and raised in Wilmot, Ontario. She graduated from Fanshawe College with an advanced diploma in Massage Therapy, and is currently in good standing with the College of Massage Therapists of Ontario (CMTO). She is dedicated to providing exceptional care to clients by tailoring each session to their specific needs and goals.
With goals to continually expand her knowledge and contribute to the well-being of others, she aspires to make a positive impact on every individual she treats. She uses a multitude of techniques to treat sports injuries, as well as stress related injuries, acute, and chronic injuries. These techniques include deep tissue, general swedish massage, myofascial release, PNF, and trigger point therapy.
Dr. Peter Klassen
Naturopathic Doctor (ND)
Peter Klassen, Doctor of Naturopathic Medicine, graduated from the University of Waterloo with a Bachelor of Arts in Religious Studies. He then pursued a Masters Degree in Theology at the University of Toronto before turning his attention to the health care field. In 1993 Peter began the four year Doctor of Naturopathy program at the Canadian College of Naturopathic Medicine in Toronto. Upon graduation in 1997 he was fortunate enough to work with one of the foremost experts in the field of biological medicine, a field of complimentary medicine which combines the science of western medicine with the wisdom of traditional medicine. This valuable experience helped shape his understanding of health and disease and emphasized the importance of treating the “regulatory disharmony” which causes disease.
Peter uses a wide variety of modalities to support the health of his clients including botanical medicine, homeopathic medicine, orthomolecular medicine, clinical nutrition, exercise and stress management techniques. These clinical tools allow Peter to address a wide variety of health concerns in men, women and children. New Hamburg Naturopath Doctor.
Dr. Robert Gregory Lusk
DR. ROBERT GREGORY LUSK
Doctor of Chiropractic (DC)
Rapid Access Clinic (RAC) - Low Back Pain - Advanced Practice Provider (APP)
Dr. Lusk completed his undergraduate health sciences degree at the University of Western Ontario before pursuing further study at the Canadian Memorial Chiropractic College, completing the four year program in 2006.
Dr. Lusk has experience and enjoys treating a wide range of clientele with muscle and/or joint conditions. This includes individuals with symptoms from everyday tasks, postural strain, sports and workplace injuries, along with car accident injuries. In addition, if you are not in pain but are looking to move better and start an exercise routine, he can provide you with guidance to avoid injury as you get started.
Dr. Lusk takes an evidence-informed approach to the diagnosis and management of injuries and pain. He has completed post graduate education in the McKenzie Method of Mechanical Diagnosis and Therapy (MDT) Part A: The Lumbar Spine and Part B: The Cervical & Thoracic Spine. He is certified in the Functional Movement Screen (FMS) and the Selective Functional Movement Assessment (SFMA). He has completed the Detailed Back Assessment portion of the McGill Method and the Spinemobility Boot Camp Program for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis. Additionally, he completed the The Orthotic Group’s (TOG) Custom Orthotic Therapy and Gait Analysis courses.
Dr. Lusk provides much education to help clients understand and self manage their complaints. His treatment style is largely manual, involving many soft tissue therapies (including myofascial release, instrument assisted soft tissue release, trigger points), as well as joint mobilization and manipulation. Progressive stretches and exercises, electro-therapeutic modalities, and custom orthotics are also used when indicated.
Dr. Lusk has also worked with local minor hockey players, as well as university athletes, employing functional exercise to improve athletic performance. He is currently the team chiropractor for the Waterloo Siskins Jr. B Hockey Club. Dr. Lusk has a diverse athletic background and is passionate about active living.
Robyn MacInnis
Registered Massage Therapist (RMT)
Robyn graduated from Trios Kitchener’s massage therapy program, and is a member in good standing with the College of Massage Therapists of Ontario (CMTO). She has always had an interest in the human body and understanding how all its unique components connect and work together. With that came a love for therapeutic massage and how it is beneficial for many common conditions we see everyday such as neck and back pain, chronic headaches, shoulder and leg pain.
Robyn uses mainly deep pressure, general Swedish massage techniques, trigger point release, fascial work, and joint mobilizations. These techniques can be very effective for relieving pain and tension in the muscles. She enjoys working in a team-based setting with other health care practitioners, and is excited to work with patients to help them feel their best in their everyday lives.
Dr. John A. Papa
Clinic Director and Founder, New Hamburg Wellness Centre
Fellow of the Chiropractic College of Physical and -Occupational Rehabilitation in Canada - FCCPOR(C)
Inter-professional Spine Assessment and Education Clinics (ISAEC) Advanced Practice Provider (APP)
Dr. John A. Papa was born and raised in Kitchener-Waterloo. He attended Wilfrid Laurier University where he played varsity soccer and obtained an Honors Bachelors Degree in Physical Education. Upon graduation, he worked in the fitness industry as a manager, health consultant, and personal trainer.
Dr. Papa attended the Canadian Memorial Chiropractic College (CMCC) and graduated in 2002 with clinical honors while receiving the prestigious Hoskins/Sommacal Clinical Proficiency Award. He is a Fellow of the Chiropractic College of Physical & Occupational Rehabilitation in Canada - FCCPOR(C), and holds a specialty designation as a Chiropractic Rehabilitation Specialist (one of only five specialties recognized by the College of Chiropractors of Ontario). He has also completed post-graduate training in Contemporary Medical Acupuncture from McMaster University, and is credentialed as a Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist through the National Strength and Conditioning Association. In addition, he serves as an Independent Consultant for several Disability Management Companies, and is currently on the editorial board for the Journal Of The Canadian Chiropractic Association.
Dr. Papa’s extensive post-graduate education allows him to offer many different treatment options for patients seeking acute and chronic pain relief, and maintenance-preventative care for their musculoskeletal health. This list of treatment options includes Activator Techniques, Medical Acupuncture, Laser Therapy, Active Release Therapy (ART), Graston Soft Tissue Therapy, Rehabilitative Exercise and Physical Therapy, and Computerized Gait and Orthotic Analysis. This multi-faceted approach has resulted in the effective treatment of neck and back pain, along with many non-spinal conditions including shoulder, elbow, wrist, hip, knee, ankle, and foot injuries/complaints. He has successfully been able to treat a wide range of individuals including seniors, expectant mothers, children and highly skilled athletes.
Dr. Papa is the Clinic Director and Founder of the New Hamburg Wellness Centre. Since opening, the New Hamburg Wellness Centre has continued its award winning reputation as an evidence-based, patient centred and results orientated facility, becoming Wilmot Township’s trusted and reliable choice for chiropractic, acupuncture, rehabilitative physical therapy, and soft tissue injury management.
Kayla Pfeffer
Registered Massage Therapist (RMT)
Kayla holds an advanced diploma in Massage Therapy from Fanshawe College, and is a member in good standing with the College of Massage Therapists of Ontario (CMTO).
Kayla’s approach to massage involves a mix of relaxation and therapeutic techniques, including Trigger Point Therapy, Myofascial Release, and Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation (PNF) stretching. She is also trained in deep tissue massage, targeting more specific areas of concern. She has experience treating a variety of conditions such as tension headaches, TMJ dysfunction, back pain/tension, carpal tunnel, sciatica, piriformis syndrome, and plantar fasciitis. She has a particular interest in treating neck, shoulder and jaw pain and is skilled in facial and intra-oral massage of the muscles of mastication (chewing).
Kayla is dedicated to delivering personalized sessions tailored to help individuals achieve relaxation and alleviate pain. She is committed to ongoing learning and professional growth, with her clients well-being as her top priority.
Sheila Reinhart
Registered Massage Therapist (RMT)
Sheila was born and raised in the New Hamburg area. She graduated from the Canadian College of Massage and Hydrotherapy in 1999 and is a member in good standing with the College of Massage Therapists of Ontario (CMTO). Since graduation, Sheila has continued with her education and learning through courses in Pregnancy, Labor, and Infant Massage. She utilizes a broad range of massage techniques in her practice including Swedish massage, deep tissue massage, trigger point release, hydrotherapy, and myofascial release. Whenever possible, she also incorporates home care exercises into her treatment plans.
Sheila enjoys working in a setting that promotes health and wellness, and she is dedicated in educating her clients in improving and maintaining their health.
Shannon Robertson
Registered Massage Therapist (RMT)
Shannon graduated from the University of Guelph in 2018 with a Bachelor’s degree in Human Kinetics. She wanted to further her education in the health care field with the goal of helping people. In 2021, she graduated with distinction from the Massage Therapy program at TriOS College in London, Ontario, and is a member in good standing with the College of Massage Therapists of Ontario (CMTO). Shannon is dedicated and eager to continue her education and develop new skills to provide the best possible patient care.
Shannon’s warm, kind and empathetic nature makes her an ideal fit as a Registered Massage Therapist (RMT).  She is able to provide treatments that incorporate a variety of techniques that are both thorough and specific, to meet each patient’s individual needs and goals.  Shannon enjoys providing therapeutic massage, as well as deep tissue and fascial work. She has a particular interest and experience in treating conditions such as tension headaches, back and shoulder pain, and sciatic pain.
Jennylyn Taghoy
Advanced Foot Care Nurse - AFCN
Jennylyn is a Registered Practical Nurse (RPN) in good standing with the College of Nurses of Ontario. She graduated from Conestoga College with high distinction in 2013.  In 2019 she decided to broaden her education  and specialize in Advanced Foot Care Nursing.  She graduated at the top of her class at the North American School of Podology/Comfort Your Soles School.
Being in the health care field for the last 14 years, she has extensive experience in providing care for patients with multiple conditions, and has covered a wide range of populations needing foot care. Jennylyn has treated many common and uncommon foot and nail conditions such as ingrown toenails, fungal infections, corns, calluses and warts to mention a few. She is able to perform basic neurosensory testing and excels at identifying high risk foot conditions. She has excellent knowledge of infection control standards and procedures.
In addition to foot care, Jennylyn ensures that education is provided to patients regarding proper foot care and how it affects that person’s overall health and well being. She looks forward to treating, maintaining, and caring for her patient’s feet.
Sandra Tocitu
Master of Social Work (MSW)
Bachelor of Social Work (BSW)
Registered Clinical Social Worker (RSW)
Sandra completed her Bachelor Degree in Science in 2006 at the University of Waterloo, and began working with individuals of dual diagnoses, mental health and addictions. She continued her professional and educational development when she completed her Bachelor Degree in Social Work at the University of Waterloo, graduating with Honours in 2013. In July 2018, Sandra completed her Master’s Degree in Social Work. She is a registered member in good standing with the Ontario College of Social Workers and Social Services Workers.
In the domain of Clinical Social Work and Counselling, Sandra has extensive experience working as a clinician in the field of child and adult mental health, focusing her therapeutic practice in areas of depression, anxiety, addictions, domestic violence, child abuse, custody and access disputes, Motor Vehicle Accident (MVA) rehabilitation and chronic pain just to name a few. Her work is trauma informed as well as attachment based and she practices from the cognitive model of psychotherapy. In addition, Sandra uses a large variety of techniques stemming from clinical frameworks of Signs of Safety, and Circle of Security, which are client focused as well as strength based approaches. What’s unique about Sandra’s work is that she recognizes everyone’s journey to recovery as a subjective experience, and depending on the circumstance, she utilizes a combination of interventions and modalities that best suit the specific needs of this person. Continuing her passion to grow and expand her knowledge and ability to help clients, Sandra is hoping to become a certified Clinical Traumatologist through the Traumatology Institute of Canada.
In addition to offering clinical counselling and therapy, Sandra also provides general social work supports that may include but are not limited to connecting individuals and their families to the most appropriate resources in the community, making referrals for their family members to different/other service providers, as well as general navigation of the social system (for example Ontario Housing, Ontario Works, Ontario Disability, court services just to name a few). Many Extended Health Care (EHC) insurance policies fully or partially cover individuals for Clinical Social Work and Counselling. Please check your policy for details.
Emily Ullman
Registered Massage Therapist (RMT)
Emily is a graduate of the Massage Therapy program at Anderson College, and is a member in good standing with the College of Massage Therapists of Ontario (CMTO).
In addition to her clinical experience and education, she obtained her 200 hr. Yoga Teacher Certificate in 2021 and taught weekly classes online with the Kundalini Foundation. She has also enjoyed volunteering with the CNIB and the Wilmot Soccer Club.
Emily is a student of life and is excited to work alongside her clients in developing personalized treatment plans that are tailored to each client’s specific goals. She utilizes her broad range of Swedish and non-swedish techniques along with joint mobilizations, neurodynamics, PNF (Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation), remedial and breathing exercises to support her clients on their recovery journey and aid in their relaxation.
In her free time, Emily loves to spend time in the forest with her two Huskies and her family.
Jodi Wildfong
Registered Massage Therapist (RMT)
Jodi graduated with honours from the Canadian College of Massage and Hydrotherapy in 1997, and is a member in good standing with the College of Massage Therapists of Ontario (CMTO). She has over 20 years experience working in a clinical setting, and is successfully able to provide a therapeutic balance between symptom relief and relaxation for all her patients.
Jodi has completed certified courses in Pregnancy Massage, Deep Tissue Massage, Fibromyalgia, and Chronic Headache treatments. She utilizes a variety of techniques such as Swedish massage, deep tissue massage, trigger point therapy, joint mobilization, and remedial exercises to achieve optimal health and well-being for all her patients. She also has experience with Motor Vehicle Accident (MVA) injuries, post stroke patients, individuals with multiple sclerosis, and treating children of all ages.
Jodi enjoys working in a team-based setting with other health care practitioners and is dedicated to providing the best quality care for her clients along with friendly service in a comforting environment.
JODI WILDFONG


  Registered Massage Therapist (RMT)


Jodi graduated with honours from the Canad... Read More
Select a treatment from the list on the left to view available appointment times
Located at:
417 Waterloo Street, Unit 2, New Hamburg
