Toggle Navigation
More allegations about Trump’s failed coup | Beastrabban\’s Weblog
Campaigning organisation Open Britain has provided more allegations about Trump’s failed coup, as it is considered, on January 6, 2021.
For clarity: On January 6, 2021, the United States Capitol Building in Washington, D.C., was attacked by supporters of then–US President Donald Trump in an attempted self-coup d’état two months after his defeat in the 2020 presidential election.
They wanted to keep him in power by occupying the Capitol and preventing a joint session of Congress from counting the Electoral College votes to formalize the victory of President-elect Joe Biden.
The attack was ultimately unsuccessful in preventing the certification of the election results.
Buy Cruel Britannia in print here . Buy the Cruel Britannia ebook here . Or just click on the image!
Now, Open Britain is claiming the following:
New unsealed court filings revealed what US federal prosecutors think actually happened on January 6th:
Trump allegedly acted “privately” in attempting to overturn the election, meaning that his actions leading up to and on January 6th were not official Presidential business (and therefore were not covered by any “presidential immunity”).
Trump was allegedly told by VP Mike Pence that he’d lost the election and that he needed to concede before he told the Jan 6th crowd that Pence could fix it by refusing to certify the election.
Trump allegedly knew that his election fraud claims were false, and planned to declare victory far before the ballots were counted and any winner was projected.
Trump agents were quoted as saying to “make them riot” over claims of election fraud, referring to the Jan 6th protestors.
This isn’t an official ruling, and it remains to be seen whether these allegations will bear out under further legal scrutiny. But the evidence is mounting that Trump, outside of his protected remit as President, privately deployed a number of different tactics to subvert the result of the election. When all else failed, he directed a violent and angry crowd into the centre of government.
Vox Political needs your help! If you want to support this site (but don’t want to give your money to advertisers) you can make a one-off donation here:
Be among the first to know what’s going on! Here are the ways to manage it:
1) Register with us by clicking on ‘Subscribe’ (bottom right of the home page). You can then receive notifications of every new article that is posted here.
2) Follow VP on Twitter @VoxPolitical
3) Like the Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/VoxPolitical/
5) Join the uPopulus group at https://upopulus.com/groups/vox-political/
6) Join the MeWe page at https://mewe.com/p-front/voxpolitical
7) Feel free to comment!
And do share with your family and friends – so they don’t miss out!
If you have appreciated this article, don’t forget to share it using the buttons at the bottom of this page. Politics is about everybody – so let’s try to get everybody involved!
The Livingstone Presumption is available in either print or eBook format here:
Health Warning: Government! is now available in either print or eBook format here:
The first collection, Strong Words and Hard Times, is still available in either print or eBook format here:
One Comment
Boris Johnson has admitted that Trump lost in 2020.
Leave A Comment
Comment
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
you might also like
July 1, 2022
August 27, 2023
March 2, 2018
April 17, 2024
May 23, 2015
October 7, 2024
October 7, 2024
October 6, 2024
Stephen Gerard Scullion says:
Stu says:
Jeffrey Davies says:
ElDee says:
Toggle Navigation
