8 ratings
$54
$54
https://schema.org/InStock
usd
Learn How To Create Thought-Provoking Visuals (even if you have zero design experience):
Learn the exact framework I use to create powerful visual posts on social media that helped me attract over 1 million followers in 7 months.
I grew my brand @visualhustles on Instagram from 0 - 1.4 million followers which helped me make a living online all without having to show my face on my brand.
I started my page @visualhustles on Instagram back in April 2023 and since then, have been able to grow this page to over 1 million followers in 7 months (You can confirm this from my profile through the growth highlights)
So, how was I able to do this?
The key lies in one minimalistic style of content that anyone can learn:
Simple, yet captivating visual designs.
Some of the many minimalistic, yet viral visual designs I’ve posted on my page: @visualhustles.
After posting over 2000+ of these insightful visuals on my page, I often get asked many questions from people:
"How are you creating these visuals?"
"How can I design and learn how to create these visuals even with my time being limited with other duties?"
“How can I go out and inspire others through visual lessons?”
That's why I've created this complete video course to help guide you step by step…
On how you too can start creating these quick, simple, and inspirational visuals for your social media platforms (Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc.)...
And grow it to new heights with or without showing your face online.
Before I tell you more about the course, I want to share with you why visual content is a cheat-code to building a strong and successful presence on social media:
Faster Consumption of Information
With decreasing attention spans (down to around 8 seconds), people are more inclined to engage with visual content because it’s quicker to consume.
Visuals deliver complex information in a digestible way, which is key in today’s fast-paced digital environment.
It’s much easier to process and understand the visual, right?
Better Information Retention
People remember 65% of visual content they’ve seen even three days later, compared to only 10% for text-based content. (Dr. John Medina, Brain Rules)
The human brain processes visuals 60,000 times faster than text. (Massachusetts Institute of Technology)
This makes visuals
More effective in grabbing attention and delivering messages quickly.
Extremely attractive for an average social-media user like you and I.
Insights from one of my many viral visual posts from my page @visualhustles on Instagram.
Boosted Reach and Shares
Social media posts with visuals are 40 times more likely to be shared compared to text-only content.
Infographics, specifically, are shared and liked three times more than other types of content on social media platforms.
Insights from just one of my viral visual posts on my page @visualhustles on Instagram.
Adaptation to Algorithms
Social media algorithms, like those on Instagram, Twitter, and LinkedIn favor content that generates high engagement—visual posts lead to higher engagement, which means your content is more likely to be prioritized in user feeds.
Past 90 days Insights from my Instagram page @visualhustles
As you can see, in a world where attention spans are shrinking and competition for visibility is fierce, visuals are a must-have for your social media success.
They not only capture attention quicker but also lead to significantly higher engagement, shares, and retention!
So, what will you learn from Visuals Mastery?
After going through this video course you will be able to:
Understand why visual-design holds countless opportunities on social platforms.
Acquire content ideas through simple everyday lessons and experiences.
Leverage online tools and create your own visuals even if you have zero design experience.
Build a brand and develop a visual Instagram Theme-Page.
Create something worthwhile and inspirational for yourself and others.
Here's the full breakdown:
Module 1: Understand WHY visual posts go mega viral on social media 🚀
In this straight-forward module, we showcase to you (using proven research, studies, and statistics) the true power of creating visual ideas online and why you need to begin creating them ASAP.
After this module, you’ll understand why visual design has become so big and will continue to grow for years to come.
Module 2: Learn how to acquire and gather the RIGHT BIG IDEAS 💡
In this module, we’ll walk you through the 4-part “idea-generation” content system that’ll enable you to generate high-quality ideas on a daily basis with minimal effort.
After this module, you’ll be able to passively generate visual content ideas simply through daily metaphors, interactions, and personal experiences.
Module 3: Learn how to turn BIG IDEAS into VISUALS 🖌️
In this module you’ll learn how to leverage the design tool:
‘Canva’, develop different styles of visuals, and meticulously edit visual designs before you distribute them.
Even if you have zero design experience, this module serves as the main guide for you to start creating your very own high-quality visual designs immediately.
Module 4: Learn how to SHARE your visuals online 📱
In this module, we’ll teach you the process of building an Instagram Visual Theme-Page Brand via designing a logo, username, and Instagram page.
By the end of this module, you will be able to post the visual designs you’ve been developing on Canva with eye-capturing captions and relevant hashtags.
Module 5: Super-Secret Bonus Module 🤫
Shhhhh! This is a secret module that I don't want to say much about right now and want you to see for yourself how powerful it is.
Module 6: Till we Hustle Again! 🤝
In this module, we’ll conclude your time here at Visual Hustles with a final thank you as well as an all-inclusive summary sheet of the course contents that you may keep handy as you continue to design your visuals for the future!
*There are many bonuses, visual ideas, and much more inside the course to help you master visualizing ideas and designing visual posts as well! You will get 100% access to all these goodies upon purchase.
To reiterate, by the end of this course, you will be able to:
Understand the true power of visual design
Spontaneously develop visual ideas through simple day-to-day interactions, lessons, and experiences
Proficiently design and edit your visual ideas in Canva
Share your visuals online on a multitude of platforms
Create something worthwhile and inspirational for yourself and others.
If that sounds like a deal, hit the “I want this” button below to get started! I can’t wait to see you inside.
-Visual Hustles
Got Questions? I’ve got answers:
Q: Who is this course for?
A: This is a course for everyone (no matter your design experience) who wants to learn, understand, leverage, and implement the power of visual design on their social platforms.
Q: Is this an e-book or a video course?
A: This is a video course containing 6 video modules where we guide you step-by-step through the process of creating these designs.
Q: Can I really learn how to create visuals without any prior experience?
A: If you are open to learning, then ABSOLUTELY YES! Our videos are tailored to everyone interested in the power of visual design (no matter your experience) and will guide you step-by-step through the entire process.
Q: Do I need to buy expensive softwares to make these visual designs?
A: Nope, you are going to learn how to create these visuals using the free version of Canva (The tool we use to create the visuals). Canva has a free plan which is good enough to help you start, it also has a paid version which is relatively inexpensive compared to other expensive softwares.
Q: Will I learn how to create video animations in this course?
A: Nope, this is a course that is dedicated to teaching you how to create VISUAL POSTS not videos.
Q: Can I do this without having to show my face online?
A: Yes! If you look at my page @visualhustles, it is anonymous. If you are comfortable showing your face online, you may also do so as well. Completely up to you.
Q: Can I do this with minimal time and while balancing other life-responsibilities?
A: Yes. In this two hour course, we’ll teach you the exact content-system we use to create impactful visuals for months in under 15 minutes/day. If you’re a full time student, parent, employee, or even just have life-responsibilities, we’ll explain to you how visual design is an inclusive space for everyone to enter.
Q: What language is this course in?
A: Course videos and content are provided in English.
Q: How long will it take me to go through the whole course?
A: The total time of the videos and general content in the course is about 2.5 hours. Feel free to learn it all in one sitting or go at your own pace!
Q: Where can I post the visual designs that I create?
A: You can post them on Instagram like I do, or you can also post them on other social media platforms like Twitter, LinkedIn, and TikTok. Visuals work for any platform where you can upload images, so don’t be afraid to experiment with different types.
Q: Do I get lifetime access by purchasing once?
A: Yes you do. This is a one time investment and you get lifetime access to the video course, bonus content, and all future updates.
Q: I can't seem to find the question that I wanted to ask, what can I do?
A: All good! Feel free to message me on Instagram @visualhustles and I will get back to you as soon as I see your message 🙂
STUDENT TESTIMONIALS
If you are ready to start creating your first viral visual post, then click on the "I want this" button below to get started NOW.
These Terms and Conditions outline the guidelines for subscribing to the online courses and community offered by VisualHustles Limited.
We are proud to serve you and appreciate your trust in our company. Throughout this document, VisualHustles Limited will be referred to as "the Company."
At Visualhustles Limited, we are dedicated to delivering valuable learning experiences through our online courses.
To maintain transparency and ensure a smooth experience, we have outlined our policies regarding course purchases.
1. Duration of Access:
Upon purchase, you will receive "Lifetime access" to the video course. "Lifetime access" means you will have access to the course content for as long as VisualHustles Limited continues to offer and maintain the course online. Your access remains valid as long as the course is available through our platform.
2. Course Structure:
Upon enrollment and payment, you will receive instant access to all video lessons, included in the course. Some materials and resources can be unlocked inside the program if the client wants to unlock them by meeting the conditions provided inside the program.
3. Content Redistribution Policy:
At Visualhustles Limited, we are committed to protecting the integrity and value of our course content. By purchasing and accessing the course, you agree that all materials, videos, and resources are strictly for personal use. Any unauthorized sharing, copying, distribution, or reselling of the course content is strictly prohibited.
You may not reproduce, share, or disseminate any part of the course in any format, whether digital or physical, without prior written consent from Visualhustles Limited. Engaging in piracy or unauthorized distribution may result in immediate termination of your access to the course without a refund, and legal action may be pursued.
We appreciate your respect for the effort and resources invested in creating this content.
4. Money-Back and Refund Policy for Visuals Mastery
At VisualsHustles Limited, we strive to provide exceptional value through immediate access to all our educational content. Due to this instant access, we do not offer a money-back guarantee or refunds once enrolled. All purchases are final.
However, we understand that mistakes happen. If you accidentally made a duplicate purchase, please contact our support team within 48 hours. We will review such cases individually, and any credits or refunds will be issued at our discretion.
Your satisfaction is important to us. While refunds aren't available, we are fully committed to your learning experience. If you face any challenges or have feedback, our support team is here to help ensure you have the best experience possible.
By completing your purchase, you confirm that you have read, understood, and agreed to these terms.
Last updated Sep 29, 2024
Complete video course to help you create your first visual post design (even if you have zero design experience)
Add to wishlist
