Building the NaaS Experience
GNE brings together the industry leaders who are building and delivering the next generation of Network-as-a-Service.
Join us for 3 days of pivotal engagement with executive decision makers, strategists, technology experts, and enterprise users.
Day(s)
Join us at the Global NaaS Event in October 2024! This fantastic event brings together service providers, equipment manufacturers, hyperscalers, software developers, and enterprise customers to discuss the requirements and capabilities needed to make NaaS successful.
Debika Bhattacharya
MEF Board of Directors, Chair | Verizon Business, Chief Technology Officer
With more and more enterprises adopting NaaS, it’s critical the telecom industry continues to collaborate and drive standards for supporting and enabling the modern network capabilities and business models that enterprise customers expect with 5G services.
The Global NaaS Event by MEF is where leaders can contribute to moving this conversation forward for our industry.
Rohit Batra
ServiceNow, General Manager & Vice President, Manufacturing, Telecommunications, Media & Technology
Attending GNE is a great way to understand the global NaaS ecosystem. Not only will you have some really fantastic speakers talking about their vision, but also you’re going to see all of the technology providers who are part of that ecosystem, and you’re going to meet other participants—not just enterprise, but also global carriers, domestic operators and industry participants.
Paul Gampe
500+
Attendees
140+
Companies
75+
The NaaS Global Ecosystem
Success and market growth require automation throughout the global supply chain where all parties adopt a common set of processes and APIs at both the business and operational levels.
NaaS: Network-as-a-Service is the combination of on-demand connectivity, application assurance, cybersecurity, and multi-cloud-based services across a standards-based automated ecosystem.
Continuous collaboration among ecosystem players is essential to deliver next-generation NaaS without having to build and maintain independent infrastructures. NaaS plays a crucial role in empowering organizations to become part of a highly scalable plug-and-play ecosystem that spans across enterprises, retail and wholesale service providers, data centers, cloud providers, technology providers, and more.
Driving NaaS developments are business executives who lead change in all facets of digital and network transformation, supported by managers, influencers, and executors. Join this community at GNE.
Enterprises
Sponsor GNE
