Support Jackie Fielder for San Francisco, CA Board of Supervisors
Jackie Fielder is a community organizer, former city commissioner, educator, and climate and environmental justice advocate.
As a proud granddaughter of Mexican immigrants and Native Americans, Jackie's heritage deeply influences her commitment to climate justice. As a city supervisor, Jackie will focus on establishing a public green bank to finance decarbonization, and renewable energy in disadvantaged communities.
Make a contribution below to support Jackie's campaign!
Contribution rules
I am a U.S. citizen or lawfully admitted permanent resident (i.e., green card holder).
This contribution is made from my own funds, and funds are not being provided to me by another person or entity for the purpose of making this contribution.
I am at least eighteen years old.
Under the penalty of perjury, I am not a City contractor, or a director, officer, greater than 10% owner, or subcontractor of a City contractor, whose contract required the approval of the Board of Supervisors  of the City & County of San Francisco within the last twelve months or whose current bid or proposal will require such approval.
I am not a contract or expenditure lobbyist in the City of San Francisco.
My aggregated contribution(s) to this committee do not exceed $500.
This contribution is not from a corporation, limited liability company, or limited liability partnership.
Under the penalty of perjury, I do not have a financial interest in a land use matter, as defined in Campaign and Governmental Conduct Code section 1.127(a) (which excludes my primary residence),that is currently pending before the Board of Appeals, Board of Supervisors, Building Inspection Commission, Commission on Community Investment and Infrastructure, Historic Preservation Commission, Planning Commission, Port Commission, or Treasure Island Development Authority Board of Directors, nor have I had a financial interest in any such land use matter for which any of these boards or commissions has rendered a final decision or ruling within the last twelve months.
By proceeding with this transaction, you agree to ActBlue's terms & conditions .
Paid for by ActBlue ( actblue.com ) and not authorized by any candidate or candidate's committee.
