Skip to Main Content
Improve your experience. We are very sorry but this website does not support Internet Explorer. We recommend using a different browser that is supported such as Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox .
Close dialog
Main navigation
1-Day Seminar From $179.00 Don A. Hursey
Description
Learn about the changes in this new Code cycle by attending the leading source of NEC information and training. You’ll learn about the most significant NEC changes that will impact your work, whether you’re an electrician, contractor, engineer, designer, or plant/facility maintenance professional.
Electrical professionals have the responsibility to ensure a safe Code-compliant system that is designed, installed, and inspected to meet the hundreds of significant changes. Your knowledge about the 2023 NEC is critical for your success, so attend this program and get an edge on your peers and competitors.
This course assists electrical apprentices, journeymen, contractors, engineers, inspectors, and maintenance personnel in understanding the changes of the 2020 National Electrical Code.
Comments from our previous session! See what people are saying about the NEC Today course:
“Don makes material very interesting.”
“It was good to have a class with individual work that wasn’t just a lecture.”
“Excellent! Very informative and helpful.”
“Don is the complete package for an instructor – helpful, experienced, great personality.”
“This is a wonderful and very well-planned course.”
“If you didn’t come, you missed a great class.”
“Delivery of course material was done in a very down-to earth way.”
“Comprehensive and entertaining.”
“Great information would be dry if not for the presentation of Mr. Hursey.”
Similar seminars
Residential Wiring Course
Covers the NEC requirements for wiring a dwelling and includes
the current North Carolina State Amendments that are related to residential
wiring. This course is approved for 4 hours of continuing education in North Carolina by the NC State Board of Examiners of Electrical Contractors (NCBEEC).
Installation and Inspection of Services Course
Covers the NEC requirements for an electrical service and it includes specific guidelines on how to achieve a code compliant installation. This course is approved for 4 hours of continuing education in North Carolina by the NC State Board of Examiners of Electrical Contractors (NCBEEC).
10 Hour Continuing Education Course
Get a refresher on the code in this 2-day training! Topics include: How transformers work, Basic transformer math, Sizing of over current devices, and more! This course, based on the National Electrical Code (NEC), qualifies for up to 10 contact hours toward electrical continuing education credits (CEUs).
10 Hour Continuing Education Course
This two-day course will help break down the dense topic of Grounding and Bonding according to the NEC Article 250 requirements. This course, based on the National Electrical Code (NEC), qualifies for up to 10 contact hours toward electrical continuing education credits (CEUs).
10 Hour Continuing Education Course
In this seminar series: Get up-to-date on the most essential changes in the NEW 2023 NEC. Receive 10 Contact Hours.
5 Hour Continuing Education Course
This one-day course will help break down the dense topic of Grounding and Bonding according to the NEC Article 250 requirements. This course, based on the National Electrical Code (NEC), qualifies for up to 5 contact hours toward electrical continuing education credits (CEUs).
5 Hour Continuing Education Course
In this seminar series: Get up-to-date on the most essential changes in the NEW 2023 NEC. Receive 5 Contact Hours.
5 Hour Continuing Education Course
Get a refresher on the code in this 1-day training! Topics include: How transformers work, Basic transformer math, Sizing of over current devices, and more! This course, based on the National Electrical Code (NEC), qualifies for up to 5 contact hours toward electrical continuing education credits (CEUs).
