Advertisement
| Updated:
The 81-year-old defended his administration's relief Thursday night after a storm damage tour that took him to Florida and Georgia.
A reporter asked Biden what states in the 'storm zone' needed from the government, throwing him off for a moment. 'Say it?' Biden told him.
Biden, returning from a trip that had him going on four helicopter rides and two flights on Air Force One, at first appeared either not to hear or get the question.
'Oh, in the storm zone,' Biden said after an awkward pause. 'I'm thinking what storm are you talking about',
'They're getting everything they need,' Biden responded.  'They're very happy, across the board.'
The response sparked a furious backlash from Republicans and residents in the path of the devastating storm.
President Joe Biden spent the day touring storm damage, then said people were 'very happy' with the assistance they were getting
'Biden didn't know 'which storm zone' the reporter was asking about and then said 'they're very happy.' Rep. Beth Van Duyne (R-Texas) said.
'Does anyone think he has the faintest clue about where he went and how those folks are doing?
'Are you kidding me?? He actually said 'THEY ARE GETTING EVERYTHING THEY NEED, THEY ARE VERY HAPPY,'' wrote Rep. Ronny Jackson (R-Texas).
'Unbelievable suffering, devastation, lack of federal assistance, and Biden thinks the people of North Carolina are HAPPY and well taken care of?? This Harris/Biden administration is the embodiment of America-Last.'
'This makes my blood boil! Our families are suffering. The death toll is going to be shocking. The missing need to be found!!!!' a resident in the storm zones wrote on X.
Another X user posted: 'You say they are HAPPY Joey? HAPPY? WTF are you talking about?? Do you even know where you are now or were you were today?
'Those people are suffering something never seen before in this country. Whole towns underwater. Missing relatives and children. Body bags filling up.'
Biden's comment came hours after rival Donald Trump accused Vice President Kamala Harris of spending disaster funds on housing for illegal migrants, even though those funds are specifically appropriated for that purpose by Congress , as is FEMA funding.
'This is the worst response in the history of hurricanes,' Trump said in Michigan Thursday. 'Kamala spent all her FEMA money—billions of dollars—on housing for illegal migrants.'
Congress appropriated $640 million to support migrants in the 2024 fiscal year, prompting outrage from Trump allies including Texas Republican Gov. Greg Abbott after the storm hit.
The blasts followed comments by Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, who said FEMA 'does not have the funds to make it through the season,' amid a debate over whether Congress should come back to replenish a disaster relief fund. The hurricane season generally runs through the end of November. Lawmakers just included $20 billion in a stop-gap spending bill to fund the government.
His comments, which came after a day of travel to meet with storm victims and get briefings, were immediately posted by the Republican National Committee's research team, which simply printed Biden's quotes without further explanation.
Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp, who has been working with the administration and who is set to appear with Donald Trump Friday, also rolled out a measure of criticism.
'When the first emergency declarations came down, there was only 11 counties in that. A lot of people were outraged, including me, because there was such devastation in up to 90 counties,' he told WRDW. He said the White House responded by boosting the declaration by 30 counties.
'So we called the White House. We spoke to the president's chief of staff, the FEMA administrator and said, look, you're sending the signal that you're not paying attention to some of these rural communities,' he said. Biden said it was likely every county would be approved for emergency declarations.
Earlier Thursday, Biden bowed his head during a tearful prayer at a Georgia pecan farm that suffered devastating losses as Hurricane Helene and hit back at criticism of his response on Thursday.
The commander-in-chief, 81, stood in silence during sweltering heat when a Ray City farmer concluded his remarks at a post-hurricane event with a prayer.
Biden and senior Washington officials stood and listened in front of rows of massive upturned pecan trees behind him, their leaves brown just days after Hurricane Helene tore through.
Ray City is around 18 miles north of Valdosta, one of the areas that suffered the biggest hit from Helene and where Donald Trump visited earlier this week.
Most of the area is still without power and residents are picking up the pieces from the deadliest hurricane since Katrina that has killed 200 people so far. At least 33  have died in Georgia.
'Lord this is your creation,' Shiloh farm property manager Buck Paulk said, with Biden and lawmakers gathered behind him.
'There ain't a twig or leaf or branch or root that you don't hold account of,' he said in his Georgia drawl. 'Lord, we need the help – it all comes from you.'
President Joe Biden bowed his head during a tearful prayer at a Georgia pecan farm that suffered devastating losses as Hurricane Helene
Farmers here are looking for another kind of help from Washington, D.C., and Biden said they would get it.
The president took a question about an emergency supplemental bill, something he has said may be needed soon to provide relief. Speaker Mike Johnson said earlier that other legislation already refilled a FEMA fund.
'Can't wait, can't wait. People need help now,' Biden said.
'At moments like this, it's time to put politics aside,' said Biden during his own remarks. He called to 'break down this rabid partisanship that exists,' then said funds in some of his infrastructure legislation went more to red states than to blue ones.
'It's not one state versus the other, it's the United States. You know, there's no Democrats or Republicans out here … only Americans are here. I've been committed to being president for all Americans'.
Earlier this week, Trump accused Biden of going out out of his way to not help Republicans hit by the storm .
At a rally on Thursday he said the response has been worse than that of Hurricane Katrina.
'There's nobody that's handled a hurricane or storm worse than what they're doing right now,' Trump said. 'Kamala spent all her FEMA money, billions of dollars, on housing for illegal migrants. Many of whom should not be in our country
Biden name-dropped Republican Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp, thanking him and saying they spoke earlier Thursday.
Kemp has already vouched for their contact, But Kemp was not there in person for the presidential tour of his state.
The event featured Sen. Rafael Warnock, a Democrat who helped give Democrats their majority, as well as Rep. Austin Scott, a Republican who Biden also acknowledged.
'Lord this is your creation,' Shiloh farm property manager Buck Paulk said, with Biden and lawmakers gathered behind him.
Farmers here are looking for another kind of help from Washington, D.C., and Biden said they would get it.
'FEMA has been down here. Coordination has been pretty good,' Scott told DailyMail.com on the farm.
He said the damage to the overall pecan crop was 'somewhere around $500 million.'
On an earlier storm tour in Florida, Biden met with people who lost their homes. Some houses were completely gone, with only bare pilings standing in what had been a community of retirees and vacationers near Big Bend, where the storm made landfall.
The president was accompanied by Sen. Rick Scott, who was there in jeans and his familiar Navy ballcap from earlier storm duty.
Biden name-dropped Republican Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp, thanking him and saying they spoke earlier Thursday
After landing near Washington, Biden said it took 'physical courage' for Liz Cheney to endorse Kamala Harris
But Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis wasn't there, despite an apparent effort by the White House to get in touch.
Asked why DeSantis wasn't there, Scott told DailyMail.com, 'I don't know.' DailyMail.com has reached out to the governor's office for comment.
DeSantis has been with Biden during other disasters, including after the Surfside building collapse, which came when the two were eying a potential presidential battle.
The governor, who endorsed Donald Trump after a bitter primary that ended in his defeat, may be mindful of a famous event with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie famously toured Hurricane Sandy damage weeks before the 2012 election. Observers said it bolstered Obama in his reelection.
The trip to Georgia was the latest by a top politician to a damaged battleground state, with Vice President Kamala Harris also getting in on the action with a visit to North Carolina.
Trump got the jump on both Biden and Harris with his Monday visit, where his unfounded claim that the administration was brushing off Kemp drew White House pushback.
If 'rabid partisanship' was on Biden's mind in Georgia, he issued an emphatic statement to reporters upon landing near D.C. minutes after former GOP Rep. and Trump nemesis Liz Cheney endorsed Harris onstage in Wisconsin.
'She made one of the most consequential speeches I've ever heard. She has character. I know her dad ... We argue like hell, but I always admired his courage and honesty,' Biden told reporters after returning on Air Force One.
'What she did not took only political courage, but physical courage... I was really incredibly proud of her.' But he bristled when DailyMail.com asked him what he would do to bring more Republicans over to Harris.
'I am not making that judgment. I'm talking about her... She and her father have character, character, dammit. There's not enough of it.'
e-mail
597
shares
Bing
Site
Web
DON'T MISS
DON'T MISS
From the Makers of Candy Crush
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
