Share this
Steve Gerhardt, a morgue officer from New York, rings a bell to let everyone in the room know that he successfully located a missing person nearly four months after Hurricane Katrina, on Thursday, December 22, 2005. Working in a Baton Rouge office filled with phones and computers, he and others have a full time job of connecting families. (Archive photo by Chris Granger)
CHRIS GRANGER
ALEX BRANDON
Travis Spradling
Liz Condo
Storm remains costliest ever due to federal levee failures
CHRIS GRANGER
Earline Eleby-Coleman is stopped by security in front of the DMORT - disaster mortuary -  facility to ask for the release of her mother's remains in St. Gabriel, La. on Friday Oct. 14, 2005. Their mother, Clementine Eleby, passed away on September 1st at the New Orleans Convention Center. (Archive photo by Alex Brandon)
ALEX BRANDON
A temporary morgue building at the new Victim Identification Center at Carville, La., on Dec. 1, 2005, where DMORT (Disaster Mortuary Operational Response Team) workers identified Hurricane Katrina victims. (Archive photo by Travis Spradling)
Travis Spradling
National Disaster Medical System Incident Commander Todd Ellis, left, answers questions from the media while Dr. Corinne Stern, center, with NDMS's Disaster Mortuary Operational Response Team, and St. Gabriel's Chief of Police Kevin Ambeau stand by on Monday, September 4, 2005 at the Disaster Portable Medical Unit in St. Gabriel. (Archive photo by Liz Condo.)
Liz Condo
The revised Katrina toll was one of several disaster-related findings unveiled by federal officials in recent days. Others include Louisiana being classified as the state most affected by climate-related disasters since 1980 when considered proportionately. New damage estimates also keep Katrina as the costliest storm ever despite 18 natural disasters in 2022 with billion-dollar price tags.
Editor's note: Some photographs previously in this story are outside of our photography standards. We apologize.
Those include Hurricane Ian, which made landfall in Florida and caused $119 billion in estimated damages, the third costliest on record. Katrina's inflation-adjusted damages total $190 billion, according to NOAA's National Centers for Environmental Information.
And while the National Hurricane Center has now adjusted Katrina's death toll downward to 1,392, from an earlier estimated 1,833 deaths, it still accounts for the second-highest U.S. death toll for weather disasters in modern times. It follows 2017's Hurricane Maria, which killed 2,981 in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Katrina also retains its rank as the third-highest death toll from a hurricane in recorded U.S. history, behind the estimated 8,000 dead in the 1900 Galveston hurricane, and the more than 2,500 dead in the 1928 Lake Okeechobee, Fla., storm.
Between 1980 and 2022, 163 severe storms, 60 tropical cyclones, 37 flooding events, 30 droughts, 21 winter storms, 21 wildfires and 9 freezes became billion-dollar disasters in the United States. Hurricane Katrina continues to lead the top 10.
The upward adjustment of Katrina's damage estimate was expected with the dramatic hike in inflation in 2022, though Ian's tally is likely to grow over the next few years as more accurate damage estimates are completed. Katrina's damage in 2005 dollars was estimated at $125 billion.
Hurricane Harvey, the 2017 storm that delivered more than 60 inches of rain to the Houston area, remains in second place among weather disasters with a 2022 inflation-adjusted damage total of more than $151 million.
Drowning and indirect causes
The downward adjustments of Katrina's death toll actually date back to two scholarly papers published in 2014 and 2016 by the American Meteorological Society that reviewed the way deaths were counted for recent hurricanes.
In the National Hurricane Center's 2023 Katrina report update, its authors say the changes recommended by the two papers resulted from reviews of medical logs of more than 1,000 victims provided by state officials in Louisiana and Mississippi.
The new counts found that 520 of the deaths, including 341 in Louisiana, were directly caused by Katrina, mostly the result of drowning. Another 565 deaths were considered indirectly caused by the hurricane, and according to the Louisiana State Office of Epidemiology, more than half of that category in the state resulted from "cardiovascular failure," mostly heart attacks.
Other indirect causes include evacuation accidents not caused by vehicles; vehicle accidents, including those with trees involved; accidents directly involving only trees; and several related to electricity, including carbon monoxide poisoning involving the use of emergency generators, and electrocution. Falls were the final indirect death category.
According to the report, officials could not determine the direct or indirect cause of death for another 307 victims. Most of the total deaths occurred in Louisiana, but an exact breakdown for those due to indirect causes was not provided.
In the aftermath of Katrina, victims were found days and weeks after the storm, many only after water levels in the New Orleans area subsided. Some victims were caught by water in their homes, or died caught in attics during the 90-degree days that followed.
Federal and state officials operated an interim mortuary for several months in St. Gabriel to determine death causes and to identify the bodies. Many bodies were recovered by the National Guard or other agencies conducting building-by-building searches after the storm, even as water was still being pumped out of the area.
"Presumably, most of the deaths in Louisiana were caused by the widespread storm surge-induced flooding and its miserable aftermath in the New Orleans area," the hurricane center report said. "Louisiana also reports that persons of more than 60 years of age constituted the majority of the Katrina-related fatalities among its residents."
In the aftermath of Katrina, a forensic investigation of the causes of flooding in the New Orleans area sponsored by the Department of Defense concluded that numerous floodwalls along major drainage canals were improperly designed or built, leading to their collapse or being pushed inward as much as 35 feet into neighborhoods, allowing surge from Lake Pontchartrain to flow in unabated.
Much of the earthen levees in the system had sunk as much as 2 feet below their authorized heights in the years before Katrina. The overtopping of those levees by the hurricane's surge caused many stretches to erode to near sea level because improper materials were used in their interiors during construction.
That, in turn, caused them to simply wash away. Surge and post-storm high water entered those breaches for several days after the storm moved out of the area.
Climate-related disasters
The new data, released by NOAA and NASA last week, also focused on connections between human-caused global warming and past and future weather disasters.
Louisiana has experienced between $200 billion and $290 billion in weather-related damages between 1980 and 2022, according to the National Centers for Environmental Information, with tropical weather events being the most costly, representing between $200 billion and $250 billion of that damage.
Other flooding events represent as much as $50 billion of the total, while other severe storms caused up to $20 billion, drought conditions caused up to $10 billion, and winter storms represented up to $5 billion.
Louisiana has the brightest red on this map because it ranks first in the nation for total damages per million state residents from weather disasters between 1980 and 2022.
Louisiana ranks at the top of the damages scale nationally for climate-related disasters, when the damages are averaged per million residents over that same time period.
Louisiana had between $50 billion and $100 billion in damages per million residents. In second place were Florida, Mississippi and South and North Dakota, each with $20 billion to $50 billion per million residents.
Louisiana's damage totals also represented between 2% and 3% of the state's gross domestic product during those years, again ranking the state at the top of the national damage list.
The same four states were in second in that category, with damages equal to 1% to 2% of their gross domestic product.
Many of the 2022 weather disasters were found to have links to human-caused global warming, and NOAA and NASA scientists on Thursday warned that the year's world climate data are harbingers of worse things to come.
NOAA ranked 2022 as the 6th warmest in modern history, with temperatures 1.55 degrees Fahrenheit above a 1901-2000 baseline. NASA has the year tied for 5th, with temperatures 1.6 degrees higher than a 1951-1980 baseline, and in a statistical tie with 2015.
In a news conference, NASA Goddard Institute of Space Studies Director Gavin Schmidt pointed out that a third-straight year of La Nina conditions -- lower than normal eastern Pacific Ocean sea surface temperatures -- actually caused 2022 global temperatures to be about a degree lower than they would have been otherwise.
He warned that an expected switch to El Nino conditions in the Pacific -- where sea surface temperatures are warmer than average -- that could occur later this year may result in record-breaking worldwide atmospheric temperatures in 2023 or 2024.
And both Schmidt and Russel Vose, a scientist with the National Centers for Environmental Information, warned that without significant reductions in carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gas emissions worldwide in the near future, global temperatures are likely to rise above a United Nations goal to avoid especially severe warming impacts.
The UN goal of no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius -- about 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit -- above pre-industrial levels for a single year is likely to be surpassed as early as the end of this decade, or over an average of multiple years by the late-2030s or early 2040s, they warned.
Schmidt said recent trends in increased intensity of weather events "are effectively due to human activities, with carbon dioxide emissions being the dominant problem, along with emissions of methane and nitrogen oxides, and increases in world deforestation."
He said the world still has the ability to limit future warming by taking major steps to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from the most common sources.
"It's power generation. It's the burning of fossil fuels for generation of electricity, followed by the transportation sector, the burning of fossil fuels in cars, trucks and automobiles," Schmidt said.
Hurricane Ian, which thrashed Florida and the Carolinas last year, has claimed the No. 3 spot.
This work is supported with a grant funded by the Walton Family Foundation and administered by the Society of Environmental Journalists.
Your notification has been saved.
There was a problem saving your notification.
{{description}}
Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.
Save
Browser Compatibility
Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:
