NUTRITION
Moringa leaves are about 30 to 40 percent protein. They contain all essential amino acids, which is quite rare in the plant kingdom. What’s more, it is also a good source of non-essential amino acids. Overall, Moringa contains 2,500 times more amino acids than green tea .
This amazing plant contains more protein than eggs and yogurt. More iron than meat and spinach . More Vitamin A than carrots and more Vitamin C than oranges. The World Health Organization recommends that infants age 1 – 3 consume Moringa daily.
HEALTH BENEFITS
* Heart health
The leaves, the most popular form, are noted for regulating blood pressure and eliminating water weight. Beta-sitosterol is a phytochemical found in Moringa that can help in balancing cholesterol levels. When consumed with animal fats, it successfully blocks cholesterol absorption.
* Cancer
Research demonstrates that Niaziminin, a compound found in Moringa, has anti-tumor properties. Breast and colorectal cancer studies show that leaf and bark extracts can effectively cause apoptosis of cancer cells. (1)
* Lactation
Studies confirmed that it can increase lactation by as much as 152% by day 5 of consuming it by a nursing mother.
* Allergies
It is one of the very few plant sources of Omega 3 fatty acids that can protect from an allergic reaction. Supplementing with Moringa is a great way for vegans to get their daily dose of Omega 3s.
* Inflammation and infections
Researchers concluded that it can be effective against Epstein Barr Virus (2) as well as herpes simplex virus 1. Herpes sufferers who supplement with Moringa extract may have fewer and less severe symptoms. (3)
* Liver function
Thanks to its high content of polyphenols in leaves and flowers, Moringa can protect against liver damage and toxicity. (4) It can be used as a valuable component in plant-based liver-cleansing formulas.
* Diabetes
Moringa leaves have glucose modifying properties. Moringa leaf powder has been proven to be effective at lowering glucose levels in diabetic patients.
* Brain health
Because of its high antioxidant content and neuro-enhancing properties, Moringa has been tested with other remedies, like Ginkgo Biloba and lemon balm, as a treatment for Alzheimer’s disease and showed promising results. (5)
HOW TO USE MORINGA?
You can add fresh leaves to any dish. They can be steamed or just blended into your favorite smoothie. You can also dry them and store for later consumption. The leaf powder has been proved to be very safe for human consumption but digesting large quantities may have laxative effects. Consuming 1/2 to 1 tsp a day should not cause you any problems. Drinking Moringa tea is probably the most common and convenient way of adding this nutrient-rich plant to your diet.
It seems like a good idea to add Moringa to your favorite superfoods list. They don’t call it “Nature’s Medicine Cabinet”  for no reason. Give it a try!
INFORMATION IN THIS ARTICLE IS NOT TO BE CONSIDERED MEDICAL ADVICE. ALWAYS CONSULT A QUALIFIED HEALTH PRACTITIONER IF YOU HAVE ANY KIND OF HEALTH CONCERNS. READ FULL MEDICAL DISCLAIMER HERE>>>
Scroll to Top
Receive the latest news
Subscribe To Our  Newsletter
Get access to our newsletter, coupon codes to our favorite products and receive a free ebook: “Raw, Vegan Recipes” by Project Wellness Now.
Email Address
