Reported Benefits:
Increased motivation and focus.
Consistency in reaching goals.
Reduced stress and anxiety.
A better understanding of the college recruiting and admissions process.
Motivational Video by Coach Cox:
Know the stats:
Interested in going to college? Check out the national averages for retention rates, graduation rates, and cost of attendance below.  Then make sure you learn the skills to help you succeed.  Together we can change these percentages.
View fullsize
View fullsize
View fullsize
View fullsize
The average cost of attendance to a 4-year institution is $35,331 per year.
The average amount of time needed to complete a bachelors degree is 5.1 years.
The average cost of lost income (for being in school an extra year instead of working) is $40,612 per year.  That 5th year at the 4 year institution could cost you up to $75,943.
1-of-1 Life Skills is not just for football players.  We teach student success and life skills that can benefit any high school or college student who wants to succeed.
Main Topics:
Time Management
A characteristic of successful people, is that they understand how to get the most out of their time.  We will study the student’s current time management behavior and discuss ways of organizing and creating better time management habits.  Together we will create daily and weekly schedules that will promote organization and productivity while reducing stress.
Goals
Another characteristic of successful people is that they know the importance of making goals and how to stay focused on them.  We will discuss the importance of making short term, long term, and lifelong goals and teach techniques to help the student stay focused on where they are going and what they want to accomplish.
Controlling Input
We will help the students become aware of their current input and how it affects their thought process.  Then we will work with the students to help them align their input with their goals, career aspirations, and their why.  Input drives our thought, and we become what we think about all the time.
Core Values
One of the most profound things one can do for themselves and their future is to create and live by their own personal core values.  We will help the student discover their own personal core values and help them to create the definitions associated with the values they choose.
“You become what you think about all the time.  So think positive.”
Recent Instagram Post:
