Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Justice Explore how SESP actively cultivates an inclusive environment and fosters a deep sense of belonging.
SESP Leadership Meet Dean Bryan McKinley Jones Brayboy.
Apply Learn more about how to apply to SESP programs.
Give to SESP Learn how you can expand our impact and make a gift.
Job Opportunities Find open positions and learn how to join SESP.
Apply Today
Co-Curricular Activities Discover ways to engage, including research, study abroad, student-organized seminars, and other projects.
Degree Requirements Learn about the undergraduate curriculum and the junior year practicum.
Advising and Support Connect with the SESP advising team and discover the resources available to assist students.
New Student Resources Review information about AP/IB credits, course registration and other essential material.
Apply to SESP Learn more about how to join SESP.
Our Impact Discover how SESP research and collaborations influence human lives.
Research Labs Explore labs and research projects led by our renowned faculty.
Events Calendar View our schedule of upcoming events and lectures.
ConnectEd is a conference dedicated to fostering collaboration, innovation, and professional growth among educators at Northwestern University. This annual event brings together prospective students, current students, faculty, and staff to share and discuss strategies for fostering belonging and community in the classroom while deepening learning. Attendees have the opportunity to participate in workshops, panel discussions, and networking sessions, all designed to inspire and equip them with the tools and insights needed to excel in their educational roles. ConnectEd is not just a conference; it's a vibrant community of educators committed to shaping the future of education.
Event Details
Date: October 14th, 2024 from 9:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
Address: Norris University Center, 1999 Campus Dr, Evanston, IL 60208
Event Schedule: A detailed agenda will be released at a later date.
Registration has closed.
Prospective Students
The morning session is dedicated time for prospective students to learn more about the Teaching, Learning, & Education Program and take a tour of Northwestern’s beautiful campus. The afternoon session is a perfect opportunity for prospective students to learn more about Northwestern’s philosophy on teaching and learning.
Current Students
ConnectEd offers a unique opportunity for current students to gain vital professional development experience and network with Northwestern’s extensive educational community, building a professional network that will support their future careers.
Alumni
Whether you are a graduate of SESP or another area within Northwestern, all are invited to reconnect and engage with like-minded transformative educators. This is a wonderful chance to give back, mentor current students, and stay ahead in the ever-evolving field of education.
Address
Phone number
