PUBLICATION
SHARE THIS STORY
Photo credit: Monumental Sports Network
The Boston Bruins did not have the preseason they hoped for as they went 2-4 and  ran into injury issues with a lot of key players. With the announcement of Jeremy Swayman signing his 8-year contract extension today, what will the outcome be for Brandon Bussi , who impressed greatly in preseason?
This loss came in Boston's seventh and final exhibition game, going a combined 0-4 on the road... Brandon Bussi played solid making 30 saves on 32 shots and many thought it was enough to earn him the back up position to Joonas Korpisalo . Of, course this is before star Goalie Jeremy Swayman put pen to paper on his extension. Now the Bruins have the decision to either keep Bussi or Korpisalo as his backup. In reality, Korpisalo was named the starter with Swayman out, so it only makes sense that he will be fulfilling the back up duties this season, at least for the time being.
"We played a good team tonight, but came out a little slow, and didn't really get into our game,» said Geekie. «We made a push in the second period, and a little bit in the third, but that's not good enough.  Obviously now we're looking ahead to next week, and kind of leave this one behind us.»
Jim Montgomery comments on Brandon Bussi's final game
«I thought Brandon Bussi was the only reason it was a close game,» said Montgomery. «He gave us an opportunity going into the third, only down by one. He gave us an opportunity all the way up to that second goal.»
Brandon Bussi's Response
«I was just trying to make him make the first move,» said Bussi. «If I remember, I kind of pulled one way and he pulled the other way. He kind of got me stretched out. But I've got long limbs. I have to use them to my advantage."
Do you think Korpisalo will be Jeremy Swayman's back up?
6 OCTOBRE   |   4 ANSWERS
Main takeaways from the Boston Bruins preseason finale against the Washington Capitals
What goalie do you want to see backup Jeremy Swayman?
Brandon Bussi
