Fresh thinking and actionable insights that address critical issues your organization faces.
Industries
Helping clients meet their business challenges begins with an in-depth understanding of the industries in which they work. That’s why KPMG LLP established its industry-driven structure. In fact, KPMG LLP was the first of the Big Four firms to organize itself along the same industry lines as clients.
Careers & Culture
What is culture? Culture is how we do things around here. It is the combination of a predominant mindset, actions (both big and small) that we all commit to every day, and the underlying processes, programs and systems supporting how work gets done.
Sorry, there are no results matching your search.
Autocomplete suggestions are available. Use up and down arrows to review and enter to select.
SEC priorities and comment letter trends 2024
KPMG professionals discuss SEC priorities and recent themes and trends in SEC comment letter activity.
In this webcast, KPMG professionals provide an overview of the SEC's comment letter process and highlight key SEC priorities and related themes and trends in recent comment letter activity.
We are offering two sessions of this webcast. Please register for the session that works best for your schedule.
SESSION ONE
SEC priorities and comment letter trends 2024 - 1.5 CPE credits*
SEC priorities and comment letter trends 2024 - 1.5 CPE credits*
Explore more
SEC explains comment letter and enforcement trends
Continued concerns about the quality of disclosures evident at the 2023 AICPA & CIMA Conference.
SEC stays its climate rule pending judicial review
No change in SEC’s position regarding its authority; no effect on companies preparing for compliance with other rules.
SAB 121: Questions & Answers
We summarize and answer key questions about the SEC’s guidance on digital asset safeguarding obligations.
Keeping you up to date about SEC staff positions on reporting matters and proposed rulemaking that will affect registrants
Receive the latest financial reporting and accounting updates with our newsletters and more delivered to your inbox.
Thank you
Thank you. You are now subscribed to receive accounting and financial reporting topics.
Subscribe to stay informed
Subscribe to receive our newsletter, accounting and financial reporting updates and opportunities for CPE-eligible webcasts.
Email Address *
Phone Number *
First Name *
Last Name *
Accounting and financial reporting updates
Special Instructions
By submitting, you agree that KPMG LLP may process any personal information you provide pursuant to KPMG LLP's Privacy Statement .
Submit
Accounting Research Online
Access our accounting research website for additional resources for your financial reporting needs.
Some or all of the services described herein may not be permissible for KPMG audit clients and their affiliates or related entities. The information contained herein is of a general nature and is not intended to address the circumstances of any particular individual or entity. Although we endeavor to provide accurate and timely information, there can be no guarantee that such information is accurate as of the date it is received or that it will continue to be accurate in the future. No one should act upon such information without appropriate professional advice after a thorough examination of the particular situation. KPMG LLP does not provide legal services.
The information contained herein is not intended to be “written advice concerning one or more Federal tax matters” subject to the requirements of section 10.37(a)(2) of Treasury Department Circular 230.
© 2024 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG global organization of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Limited, a private English company limited by guarantee. All rights reserved.
For more detail about the structure of the KPMG global organization please visit https://home.kpmg/governance .
Thank you!
Thank you for contacting KPMG. We will respond to you as soon as possible.
Contact KPMG
Use this form to submit general inquiries to KPMG. We will respond to you as soon as possible.
Inquiry Type *
Special Instructions
By submitting, you agree that KPMG LLP may process any personal information you provide pursuant to KPMG LLP's Privacy Statement .
Submit
Job seekers
Use the RFP submission form to detail the services KPMG can help assist you with.
You can confidentially report concerns to the KPMG International hotline
Do you need to speak with our Press Office? Here's how to get in touch.
