Welcome!
CanVECTOR and Thrombosis Canada are pleased to invite you to attend our 2024 joint conferences. The CanVECTOR Annual Conference will be held on Friday, October 25th, 2024 followed by the Thrombosis Canada Education Conference on October 26th, 2024. The programs feature Canadian and international thrombosis experts and others with complementary research expertise. The programs will be presented in-person only.
Location: The Marriott Downtown at CF Toronto Eaton Centre
Accommodation details, including group rates, will be included in your confirmation email following registration.
Friday, October 25, 2024 - CanVECTOR Program
Theme: Deepening Engagement in Research: From Patient Recruitment to Knowledge Translation
Co-chairs: Dr. Tzu-Fei Wang & Dr. Teresa Cafaro
Intended Audience:
Program Learning Objectives:
After completing this program, participants will be equipped to:
Explore the current landscape of clinical trials in Canada and employ practical methods to overcome common challenges in clinical trial planning and execution, including community hospitals engagement and enhancing patient participation.
Apply strategies for knowledge translation planning and use creative strategies to mobilize research findings to impact change.
Understand the current programming and research activities of the CanVECTOR network, including trainee research, and the potential impacts for venous thrombosis prevention, diagnosis, and treatment in the future.
Pre-Conference Activities: Thursday, October 24th
CanVECTOR is hosting the following pre-conference activities on Thursday, October 24th, which are open to CanVECTOR conference attendees and members:
18:15 - 19:30 - Clinical Investigation Group (CIG) Meeting
18:15 - 19:30 - Trainee Council Meeting & Workshop (Featuring Dr. PJ Devereaux)
18:30 - 19:30 - Population and Health Services Research (PHSR) Platform Meeting
19:30 - 21:30 - Happy Hour / Welcome Reception Venue (TBD)
Please RSVP if you intend on joining any of these activities. All registered attendees and members are welcome.
Travel Awards
To encourage participation at our conference, CanVECTOR is pleased to offer Travel Awards to CanVECTOR Trainees and Research Personnel. Please see the Application Form for complete details.
Saturday, October 26, 2024 - Thrombosis Canada Program
Theme: Thrombosis Care in 2024: Meeting Today's Challenges
Co-chairs: Dr. Tzu-Fei Wang and Dr. Allen Tran
Intended Audience:
Physicians, nurses and pharmacists involved in the management of patients with challenging medical or surgical conditions requiring personalized anticoagulant management.
Program Learning Objectives:
After completing this program, participants will be equipped to:
Apply current evidence in the management of patients with venous and arterial thrombotic disease (health advocate, medical expert, scholar)
Manage challenging thrombosis clinical cases with a multidisciplinary team (collaborator, communicator, health advocate, medical expert, leader)
Implement thrombosis treatment options in a variety of patient populations (collaborator, communicator, health advocate, medical expert)
This one-credit-per-hour Group Learning program has been certified by the College of Family Physicians of Canada and the Ontario Chapter for up to 7.25 Mainpro+ credits.
This event is an Accredited Group Learning Activity (Section 1) as defined by the Maintenance of Certification Program of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and approved by Thrombosis Canada. You may claim a maximum of 7.25 hours (credits are automatically calculated).
The Canadian Council on Continuing Education in Pharmacy has accredited this program for 7.25 CEUs
Which program(s) are you registering to attend?*
CanVECTOR ONLY
October 25 & 26
Regular Registration Options*
CanVECTOR Only - $400
Thrombosis Canada ONLY - $475
2 Day Registration
CanVECTOR Only $275
Thrombosis Canada ONLY
CanVECTOR & Thrombosis Canada (2-day)
CanVECTOR Only - $225
Thrombosis Canada Only
2-day Registration
CanVECTOR Only - $775
Thrombosis Canada Only
2-day Registration
CanVECTOR Only
Media staff, Association Representatives, etc - 2-day
Please list any food allergies or dietary restrictions
Thrombosis Canada Workshops - 1st choice*
Anticoagulation in the very elderly and/or palliative patients
Anticoagulation in renal failure
Anticoagulation use for DVT prevention or treatment for post-bariatric surgery and obese patients
Medical/surgical VTE prophylaxis in 2024
Factor XI inhibitors
Bleeding management DOAC reversal
Thrombosis Canada Workshops - 2nd choice*
Anticoagulation in the very elderly and/or palliative patients
Anticoagulation in renal failure
Anticoagulation use for DVT prevention or treatment for post-bariatric surgery and obese patients
Medical/surgical VTE prophylaxis in 2024
Factor XI inhibitors
Bleeding management DOAC reversal
Name*
Email*
Profession*
Company/Institution
Phone Number*
Yes, it's okay to send me text messages including confirmations, changes, and updates. Message frequency varies. Message and data rates may apply. View our terms of service & privacy policy.
Address*
Apply
Total
$0.00
Please check here if you will attend any CanVECTOR pre-conference meetings on Thursday, October 24th
Please check here if you will attend the Thrombosis Canada AGM on Saturday, October 26th following the education program (Members ONLY)
Please tell us how you heard about the meeting
Save Registrant
