Scroll
AUTHOR, LIFE COACH & YOGA MASTER
At Foxley Fitness we listen, care and help you thrive mentally, physically, emotionally and spiritually through the use of our various modalities. We have a strong belief in compassionate and unconditional love when customizing your care using our methods of life coaching, yoga, bodywork, breathwork, NLP and hypnosis. We believe it's your birthright to thrive in all ways and we are committed to helping you achieve speedy and long lasting results to catapult you into a new future.
Yoga & life coaching books
"The Foxley Fix: The Little Instruction Book of Essential Yoga Poses" by Susan Foxley
"In three decades of teaching yoga and healthy life habits to thousands of people ages 5-to-95, I've found less is MORE... Do a little every day and enjoy the process of opening, like a rose blooming."
These yoga poses can be done with a heating pad, and either on the floor or in your bed. If you have a job where you’re on your feet all day, or sitting in a chair or car, this is a fabulous sequence that promotes lifelong agility and overall health. The book includes 30 poses with companion photos and full instructions (including breathing and affirmations).
"Mixed Up to Fixed Up in Four Weeks: A Life Guide for Growth" by Susan Foxley
The “Mixed Up to Fixed Up in 4 Weeks” Life Guide is a simple, step-by-step map to creating a better life for yourself. It follows Susan’s first book: a compilation work with a decade’s worth of writing on how to go from “the dark night of the soul” to the “New You.”
$3.99 (Kindle), $18.95 (Paperback)
$5.95 (Kindle), $16.95 (Paperback)
Foxley fitness founder, susan foxley is a certified life coach, clinical hypnotherapist, registered  yoga master, and author.
Let her help YOU live a healthier, happier life - mind, body and soul.
Susan will inspire and motivate you, she is a compassionate yet honest coach and teacher. Life coaching sessions include hypnotherapy for stress relief, happiness, health, for better sleep, to quit smoking and/or weight loss, if needed.
FREE YOGA VIDEOS
Subscribe to Susan’s YouTube Channel - to watch 76 FREE yoga instruction and life coaching videos.
Testimonials
“Susan saved me!!! Life seemed so confusing and complicated and too challenging... her book was so easy to read and make sense of! I feel 20 years lighter in my soul!! You will blossom.”
— Kristin. Los Angeles
“Susan will transform the way you think! She explains how to turn your life around using simple language and tools. I highly recommend her workshops, book and utilizing her easy steps on how to take all that negative self-criticism and turn it into self-love. My world has changed for the BETTER since meeting Susan!”
— Diane, Venice
“Susan’s teachings are in some ways short cuts to absorbing and applying her lessons in living a purposeful life. But that is because she makes it look easy and as we know life is a daily practice at which we have to work on every day. Thank You, Susan.”
— Rebecca, Pacific Palisades
“Susan Foxley: the most amazing yoga teacher ever!! So caring and so knowledgeable. A session with her is therapeutic, rejuvenating and an enlightening experience!! Peace and Blessings”
— Nargis, Santa Monica
“Susan’s book is a joy to read! Susan Foxley has a practical wisdom coupled with spiritual philosophies that can transform your life! Whatever problem you have, you will find a solution and her lighthearted and poignant book. I hope you read this book! You will love it!”
— Rebecca, New York
“Susan is an exceptional human, so full of wisdom, compassion and boundless energy to help others. She is natural born healer and has such a magnetic, warm and charismatic energy. This book is a must read, for anyone who wants to lead with their spiritual self and enjoy a rich life!”
— Sarah, San Diego
“I took a Life Coaching Class with Susan Foxley and plan to again! Susan is AMAZING. The first thing that struck me about her is her positive energy, compassion and light. I felt inspired just being in her presence. Susan found a way to know each of us in her class and focused on our struggles, dreams and progress.”
— Amy, Sherman Oaks
“Susan Foxley has worked as my life coach for many years and is one of the most honest, wisest, and compassionate people I know! She has a way of seeing the truth through the drama and fear that often comes up when one is navigating through life, creating a peaceful and easier path on which to travel.”
— Joanna, Malibu
