Tuesday, October 8th 2024, 2:00 PM ET
The deadline for Mirror Lake Ventures Fund 2 is around the corner and the team is beginning to deploy capital and build the portfolio. Join us for this on-demand presentation as Managing Partner David Beazley gives an overview of Mirror Lake Ventures Fund 2 and explains how the team constructs a fully diversified venture portfolio.
See video policy below.
Post Webinar Summary
David Beazley, Managing Partner, led the final webinar of the year for Alumni Ventures, highlighting the upcoming last call for investments. The session covered previous fund successes, including Mirror Lake and Arbor Street funds, and previewed promising opportunities for their next rounds. Mike Peri discussed Alumni Ventures’ growth, now recognized as a top 20 venture investor, outperforming other firms in performance. They emphasized their network’s role in sourcing high-quality deals and their focus on building diversified portfolios. The discussion included notable investments like Bezel, Bionaut Labs, and Generate Bio, showcasing innovative technologies and market potential. They concluded with an overview of their investment process, syndication opportunities, and a call to action for the upcoming fund close.
This live presentation about Mirror Lake Ventures Fund 2 is open to all alumni and friends of Ohio State. Mirror Lake Ventures is Alumni Ventures’ Ohio State-focused venture capital fund.
During the session, we will discuss:
Home
Home
Home
Home
There will be time for open questions and discussion during the call
About Alumni Ventures
#1 Most Active Venture Firm in the U.S. (2023)
#1 Most Active Venture Firm in the U.S. (2022)
World's Most Innovative Companies (2022)
Note: You must be accredited to invest in venture capital. Important disclosure information can be found at av-funds.com/disclosures .
About your presenters
Managing Partner, Mirror Lake Ventures
David has played a leading role in many aspects of the VC investment cycle: structuring transactions as a fundless sponsor, improving operations as a consultant, leading management teams as a CEO, evaluating opportunities as an investor and advisor, and selling companies as a licensed business broker. Previously, he founded Synergy Financial, a private capital and consulting firm for entrepreneurs, PE professionals, and family offices. He started his investment career as a professional advisor managing millions in assets. David has undergraduate and graduate degrees from Northwestern and played for the two-time Big Ten Championship Northwestern Wildcats Football Team. He serves on the NUvention and Kellogg Entrepreneurial Center Advisory Boards.
Mike Peri
Partner, Mirror Lake Ventures
Mike, an accomplished venture capitalist and operator with over a decade of industry experience, brings a wealth of expertise to Alumni Ventures. Before joining AV as a Partner, he held a Lead Director role at CVS Health Ventures, where he focused on investments in early and growth-stage digital health companies and played a key role in shaping the firm’s portfolio management strategy. Prior to this, Mike served as a Partner at Distributed Ventures, an early-stage fund with a strong thematic emphasis on digital health, insuretech, and fintech sectors. His journey in the industry began with leadership in product and analytics at Yaro Health, a venture-incubated company that achieved a successful acquisition. Throughout his career, Mike has assumed pivotal roles in strategy, early-stage startups, and data science, shaping his comprehensive understanding of the venture landscape. Mike holds a Masters of Science in Applied Data Science from the University of Chicago, along with graduate and undergraduate degrees from DePaul University and the University of Iowa, respectively.
Webinar Registration
Neither Alumni Ventures nor any of its funds are sponsored by, affiliated with, or otherwise endorsed by any university. For further details see our Legal & Privacy Policy .
Video Policy: By consuming this content I acknowledge that I may be considering an investment with AV funds for my own or my client’s account. I agree that information contained herein may not be relied upon or used for any other purpose. Offers to purchase securities are only made through formal offering documents, which describe risks (which are significant), terms, and other important information that must be considered before an investment decision is made. To see Important Disclosure Information, visit: https://av-funds.com/disclosures .
Testimonial/Endorsement Policy: Testimonials/Endorsements were provided by the participants without compensation, but each participant has a relationship with Alumni Ventures (AV) from which they benefit. All views expressed are the individual’s own and do not represent the experience of all AV fund investors or companies in which AV funds invest. Please note that testimonials are no guarantee of future performance or success. Any provider of an endorsement that is affiliated with a portfolio company Alumni Ventures has received investment funding from AV, and may in the future seek and/or receive additional funding from AV. This circumstance constitutes a conflict of interest. Providers of testimonials or endorsements were not chosen at random or according to any objective basis, but rather on the basis of their relationship with AV.
Investor Portal Update Policy: Investor portfolio data is updated once per quarter in the AV Investor Portal.
Alumni Ventures is America’s largest VC firm for individual investors based on the combination of total capital raised, number of investments, and number of investors of leading VC firms as reported by Pitchbook and other publicly available information reviewed by AV.
(1) Internal Rate of Return (IRR) for AV Funds is net of management fees and incentive allocations applied to amounts distributed to investors, and gross of incentive allocations applicable to unrealized gains on investments held by AV Funds. IRR for AV Funds includes uninvested cash, unrealized investments, and amounts distributed to investors. The IRR shown for the Russell 2000 indices are gross of fees because indices are not managed investments, and it is not possible to invest directly in an index. For additional information see av-funds.com/disclosures . All investment involves risk, including risk of loss. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. For more information on AV Funds’ investment returns, please see here .
Not an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to purchase, any security. Such offers are only made pursuant to the formal offering documents for the fund, that describe the risks (which are significant), terms, and other important information that must be considered before an investment decision is made. To see additional risk factors and investment considerations, visit: https://av-funds.com/disclosures .
Please click here to view additional investor policies.
© 2024, Alumni Ventures. All rights reserved.
Got it
