Recipe Round-up: Thanksgiving Inspiration
It is that time of year – time to come together with family and friends around the dinner table to share meals. Thanksgiving and the holidays can be a stressful time, preparing food for large and diverse groups of people. Lentils pair wonderfully with the flavours of the season like sage, thyme, and maple, and also lend well to make-ahead dishes that can help make your meal planning less stressful. Below you will find our favourite recipes for the Thanksgiving season, including some great ideas to use your dinner leftovers.
Stunning Sides:
Submit
Quick Links
Cooking lentils is as easy as 1, 2, 3. Learn More
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
Cookie
Duration
Description
cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".
viewed_cookie_policy
11 months
The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Cookie
Duration
Description
_cb
1 year
This cookie stores a visitor's unique identifier for Chartbeat tracking on your site.
_cb_svref
30 minutes
This cookie stores the original referrer for this site visitor -- for example, this will store the fact that a visitor arrived to your site via Twitter, past the first page view, so that when a visitor recirculates to a different article page, we still know that they originally arrived on your site via Twitter. This cookie expires after 30 minutes but the timer is reset if a visitor visits a new page on your site before the cookie expires.
_chartbeat2
1 year
This cookie stores timing information about when this visitor has visited your site before. This enables us to distinguish between new, returning, and loyal visitors.
_chartbeat4
1 minute
This is a short-lived cookie that carries leftover engagement data from one page to the next, to make sure that we can send it to our servers successfully from the next page. This ensures that we capture as much engagement data as possible.
_chartbeat5
1 minute
This is a short-lived cookie that carries click information from one page to the next. This enables us to track which links on a page were clicked on to display to editors in real-time.
_ga
2 years
This cookie is installed by Google Analytics. The cookie is used to calculate visitor, session, campaign data and keep track of site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookies store information anonymously and assign a randomly generated number to identify unique visitors.
_gat
1 minute
Set by Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager to allow website owners to track visitor behaviour and measure site performance. The pattern element in the name contains the unique identity number of the account or website it relates to
_gid
1 day
This cookie is installed by Google Analytics. The cookie is used to store information of how visitors use a website and helps in creating an analytics report of how the website is doing. The data collected including the number visitors, the source where they have come from, and the pages visited in an anonymous form.
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Cookie
Duration
Description
_fbp
3 months
Used by Facebook to deliver a series of advertisement products such as real time bidding from third party advertisers.
