Crimes Against Humanity
Evidence of a Crime in Progress
On its own, each of these cases is a tragedy. Taken together, a pattern of action clearly emerges. We believe that this living archive is evidence of crimes against humanity. We are documenting everything, anticipating a reckoning.
Document Your Story Now
We Will Not Let Your Story Be Forgotten
Have you lost someone close to you, or had a loved one suffer harm due to public health policy over the last two years? Have you suffered? We want to hear your story, and we will never forget.
These Are Crimes Against Humanity
We are witnessing crimes against humanity taking place all across this country and all over the world. Our friends and family members have been and are being harmed by measures ostensibly implemented to protect them and keep them safe.
Three Years of Isolation, Abuse & Mistreatment
For over three years, the people have been abused, manipulated, maligned, and sometimes even murdered in the name of public health. This has been and is still going on in hospitals, assisted living facilities, juvenile detention centers, schools, and really anywhere else that institutional mandates can be applied with force. We, the people harmed by these unamerican and unconstitutional measures, are dedicated to pushing back on this encroachment on our civil liberties, and putting a stop to these grievous harms the people are being forced to endure at the hands of those entrusted to protect them.
Never Forget
This is one of many projects developed to defend our liberties undertaken by the FFFF. The primary goal of this project is to document, archive, and assist those impacted by these crimes against humanity. We are taking testimonials from those who have survived the protocols mandated by these disastrous policies, interviewing victims and family members to validate their stories, and documenting and archiving everything. We will not allow the victims of these crimes against humanity to go unheard.
Managed By FFFF Citizens Task Force
The FFFF Task Force is composed of survivors, victims, and families of victims who have suffered grievous harm as a result of malicious public health policy. If you have been harmed by the disastrous public health policies of the last two years and would like to help others and raise awareness, please Join the FFFF Task Force today.
There Are So Many Victims
All across the country and around the world, people have been victimized by reprehensible public health policies. Are you one of them? Add your story to the project by filling out this form . We will not allow your story to be forgotten.
AL
AK
AZ
AR
CA
CO
CT
DE
FL
GA
HI
ID
IL
IN
IA
KS
KY
LA
ME
MD
MA
MI
MN
MS
MO
MT
NE
NV
NH
NJ
NM
NY
NC
ND
OH
OK
OR
PA
RI
SC
SD
TN
TX
UT
VT
VA
WA
WV
WI
WY
DC
After receiving hundreds of reports from devastated families around the nation, CHBMP has documented over 861 cases of crimes against humanity committed over the course of the COVID crisis, and our volunteers are struggling to keep up with a constant influx as more victims become aware of what happened to themselves or their loved one(s). The stories we have documented and archived are a small sample of the damage done to millions over the course of the last three years. Each victim represents thousands more.
How many victims are there in your state?
Search
A FormerFedsGroup Freedom Foundation Mission
Archives Managed By FFCTF
The Freedom Foundation Citizens Task Force is composed of survivors, victims, and families of victims who have suffered incalculable harm as a result of COVID-related public health policy. If you have been harmed by the disastrous public health policies of the last four years and would like to help others and raise awareness, please Join the FFCTF today.
