3 Oct 2024
Update: The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced on Oct. 4 it has provided $45 million in disaster relief thus far: $23 million to people in Florida; $17 million to North Carolina; and $4.5 million to South Carolina.
One form of disaster relief, Serious Needs Assistance , is offered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to provide people with $750 for food and immediately needed essentials. However, disaster victims can also apply for multiple other forms of assistance.
This includes Displacement Assistance to pay for hotel or motel stay while a hurricane sufferer works on their long-term housing plan. Also available: Home Repair/Replacement Assistance, Rental Assistance, Personal Property Assistance, Medical and Dental Assistance to cover disaster-related injuries, Funeral Assistance, and Child Care Assistance.
Despite Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas’s warning that FEMA does not have enough money to make it through hurricane season, the agency on Oct. 3 added to its rumor control page that it has “enough money right now for immediate response and recovery needs.”
Original article continues below…
Vice President Kamala Harris announced $750 in aid for Hurricane Helene victims, just days after the Biden-Harris administration announced $8 billion in a new installment of aid for Ukraine.
Harris spent the weekend campaigning on the West Coast as the hurricane unleashed deadly destruction across the nation’s southwest, killing hundreds of Americans, with hundreds more still missing.
On Wednesday, Harris visited Georgia — two days after former President Donald Trump visited — and announced what many are criticizing as a measly amount of aid for hurricane victims: $750.
Harris touted during remarks in Augusta, Georgia, “The federal relief and assistance that we have been providing has included FEMA providing $750 for folks who need immediate needs being met, such as food, baby formula, and the like. And you can apply now.”
The $750 is $50 more than the amount the administration gave the 2023 Maui wildfire victims, which included many who had lost their homes and loved ones.
Just a week ago, the Biden-Harris administration announced $8 billion for Ukraine.
Speaking alongside Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky at the White House, Harris said, “We will continue to provide the security assistance Ukraine needs to succeed on the battlefield, as demonstrated by President Biden’s significant announcement earlier today.”
The administration has sent Ukraine at least $175 billion over the last two years since the war began.
The discrepancy in the amount for Hurricane Helene victims and the Ukraine War has prompted harsh criticism of the administration’s poor response.
Rep. Tom Tiffany (R-WI) posted on X:
$750 for Hurricane Helene victims. $700 for Maui fire victims. $175 BILLION to Ukraine. FREE flights, health care, housing, and food for illegal aliens.
Under Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, American citizens come last.
Follow Breitbart News’s Kristina Wong on ”X” , Truth Social , or on Facebook .
SOCIAL
