Login with username, password and session length
Author Topic: Tim Walz’s Debate Claim Hit With Major Fact-Check  (Read 190 times)
0 Members and 1 Guest are viewing this topic.
TBR Advisory Committee
« on: October 04, 2024, 07:36:59 pm »
Tim Walz’s Debate Claim Hit With Major Fact-CheckTrending Politics NewsMark SteffenOctober 4, 2024Post-debate fact-checkers analyzing Tuesday night’s debate between Sen. J.D. Vance (R-OH) and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz have found that the Democrat made a damning false claim that went unnoticed by the CBS moderators who were quick to call out Vance throughout the event.Although the single vice presidential debate was largely cordial, a point of contention came in the first half when Vance directly asked Walz why he and fellow Democrats are content to stifle dissent online. He cited proven instances of the Biden-Harris administration pressuring social media companies to mute or ban users who spoke out against Covid-19 mandates, the efficacy of masks, or criticized lockdown procedures implemented across the nation. During the Republican’s answer, Walz interjected, saying “misinformation” isn’t protected by the First Amendment. Not true, writes Reason.“The would-be vice president is wrong to say that misinformation lacks First Amendment protection,” the libertarian outlet writes, concurring with others that even outright lies about the government are protected free speech. In his answer, Walz attempted to compare opinions on the pandemic to shouting “fire” in a crowded theater, a limit to free speech immortalized by Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr.’s opinion in the 1919 U.S. Supreme Court case Schenck v. United States. In doing so, author Robby Soave writes, Walz was “disrespecting the most important democratic norm of all: free speech.”(more) https://trendingpoliticsnews.com/tim-walzs-debate-claim-hit-with-major-fact-check-mstef/
Logged
You cannot "COEXIST" with people who want to kill you.If they kill their own with no conscience, there is nothing to stop them from killing you.Rational fear and anger at vicious murderous Islamic terrorists is the same as irrational antisemitism, according to the Leftists.
« Reply #1 on: October 04, 2024, 08:43:36 pm »
If disinformation and lies are outlawed...the Dems will have to shut up....so there is that.
