Pantzer Properties acquired The Point at Waltham for $91M.
A New York investor has acquired a new multifamily building in Waltham , the latest in a series of investments in suburban Boston apartments.
Pantzer Properties bought the 195-unit The Point at Waltham for $91M, Banker & Tradesman first reported . Massachusetts Housing Partnership Fund provided $59M in mortgage financing for the sale.
The 238K SF property was developed by Phoenix-based Alliance Residential Co . It was built under the state's 40B law, which requires the project to have 25% affordability, equating to 49 units.
The developer filed a permit for the project in 2015, and it received complaints from some city councilors over the density but broke ground in 2021 . At 341 2nd Ave., the project sits in a largely industrial area just off Route 128.
Pantzer owns apartment complexes in Abington, Andover, Billerica, Methuen, Marlborough, Sharon, Weymouth and Wrentham totaling more than 1,500 units. In February, the firm acquired the 234-unit The Point at Green District in Marlborough for $96M from Rockpoint and Post Road Residential.
Another Waltham apartment community sold last week for the highest price of any Boston-area multifamily sale this year, with FPA Multifamily paying $221M for the 696-unit Gardencrest Apartment Homes. On Monday, TruAmerica Multifamily announced it acquired a 324-unit apartment community called the Villas at Old Concord in Billerica for an undisclosed price.
Contact Taylor Driscoll at taylor.driscoll@bisnow.com
Subscribe to Bisnow's Boston Newsletters
Also subscribe to Bisnow's Multifamily Newsletter
Confirmed! You are subscribed to the Bisnow Boston E-Newsletter.
Most Read Stories
From:
LOGIN TO BISNOW
LOGIN TO BISNOW
We're not asking for your money. This is not a step
                        towards a paywall. Our news is free and we intend to keep it that way.
Login
Register
First Name:
Last Name:
Cell Phone:
Postal Code:
LOGIN
REGISTER
CONTINUE
Enter your email below. We will email you a link to reset your password.
Use the form below to reset your password.
We need additional data to finish your registration.
First Name:
Last Name:
Upcoming regulations in the European Union require us to show this pop-up and ask you to agree to keep using Bisnow.com. We want to take 15 seconds to tell you what's going on:
We need you to be cool with us holding onto your email address (if we already have it) and for us to email you about commercial real estate news and events.
We need you to be ok with our use of information like your general location or reading habits to personalize your experience, so we can suggest the right stories to read or events for you to attend.
We need you to know that security is our top priority and that we hold any information we have about you under lock and key.
Sound good? Just hit yes and continue on your way.
