YOUR FIRST*
ORDER NOW
Sign up to our newsletter and receive 15% off along with exclusive offers, deals and store discounts online.
zoom-icon
Regular price
Error
Product information
Material:
Copper
DESCRIPTION
Delicate and feminine set of copper magnetic rings, featuring detailed leaf designs, these rings symbolise growth and prosperity.
Containing two 3500 Gauss neodymium magnets to help with disease marked by inflammation and pain in the joints, muscles, or fibrous tissue, especially rheumatoid fibromyalgia.
Gorgeous Leaf Like Design
Luxury Gift Box Included
Why not check out our wide range of copper magnet bangles, copper link bracelets and copper rings.
DELIVERY & RETURNS
FLAT RATE
Pay only one shipping rate regardless of the amount you purchase in store.
PRIORITY*
Priority shipping is available on all orders before 1pm. This is also a Mon-Fri service only so please be aware when making the upgrade. Weekend & bank holiday priority next day shipping orders will be sent out on the next working day.
If you have any questions about deliveries, our customer service team can be reached via the contact form or directly by email at: info@gausstherapy.com.
ABOUT COPPER RINGS
Hypoallergenic Copper Rings
Joint Pain, carpal tunnel, tennis elbow, tendonitis, repetitive strain injury (RSI)
Pain and inflammation in the knees, shoulders, arms, wrist or hands.
Poor circulation associated with diabetes; cold hands and feet.
Helps Your Body To Help Itself!
Magnetic therapy has been used for years to help reduce inflammation, alleviate pain, and improve blood circulation.
It is also used to reduce stress & anxiety, improve sleep, and enhance overall well being.
EXTRA STRONG high powered 3500 Gauss Magnets helping to relieve the symptoms of arthritis and carpal tunnel. These are the strongest magnets available, much stronger then any other magnetic products on the market!
Reviews
ship-icon
Magnets force the calcium ions to travel quicker through your body, thereby catalysing the healing cycles for bones and nervous tissues. Additionally, magnetic therapy promotes endorphin production, which leads to a reduction in pain and increase in a general feeling of wellness
Discover wellness!!!
MAGNETIC THERAPY
Remediates pain
GERMANIUM
Eliminates the harmful toxins
Enhances your mental clarity
Slows down the aging process
Improvement in cardiovascular health
Eases pain and inflammation
TOURMALINE STONES
Believed to help promote happiness
Helps reduce fear among its users
Protects your body against radiation
Susan R.
Gillian W.
Seems to be helping me very well with my arthritis.
Val C.
I am very happy with the ring which has definitely made my finger less painful. 
I would  prefer silver/stainless steel rather than the copper but accept it has made a difference .
Leanne Love
Beautiful creafted copper rings with little gauss magnets at either end of the ring, easy to adjust with thumb and forefinger thanks gausstherapy
Kohen Weir
You 've arrived faster than other products I 've ordered long before.
Kinga Howell
The ring received quickly, such as in the picture.
I wonder on which finger is better to wear?
Thank you for your good service.
Layla Hulme
As a description, you need to try it to see if it works.
Kyla Irvine
Bought a few sets of rings from gausstherapy now, all good quality pure copper rings
Oliver Norris
Excellent quality for price and came in about 3/4 days to the UK
Zaid Pemberton
Quality set of rings, came in a black velvet bag with some discount cards, nice thank you
Riana Acosta
Thank you they are beautiful copper rings and fit perfectly on my fingers
Follow us
GaussTherapy® offers a wide range of magnetic therapy jewellery for arthritis, carpal tunnel and fibromyalgia.
Contact Number: 07305 128108
Payment Methods
Use left/right arrows to navigate the slideshow or swipe left/right if using a mobile device
Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.
Press the space key then arrow keys to make a selection.
cart white
