America Needs You
AMAC fights for the values that make America Great. If you agree with our core values of faith, family & freedom, you'll love AMAC.
More than just words. AMAC takes action. For you. For America. Our members empower us and shape our mission.
Money Saving Benefits
Insurance, Travel and so much more! See what benefits we offer and how your membership can save you money!
AMAC Newsline
News and commentary on the events and issues that you care about the most.
Days
Hours
Minutes
Seconds
AMAC and Medicare Go Together Like Stars & Stripes.  Join the Thousands of Others Who Choose AMAC for all Things Medicare!
Tuesday, October 8, 2024
Public reports – including in Axios and MSNBC – confirm Democrats, such as Jamie Raskin...
Monday, October 14, 2024
Monday, October 14, 2024
Sunday, October 13, 2024
Sunday, October 13, 2024
AMAC offers a variety of money saving benefits to its members.
News
AMAC Newsline and the Better for America Podcast provide news & commentary on important issues and events.
Save up to 25% by purchasing multi-year memberships! All Membership packages include your spouse for FREE!
1 YEAR MEMBERSHIP
AMAC Provides Value
PureTalk
AMAC members get steep discounts on cell phones and talk, text, and data plans starting at only $10 per month.
Travelers Insurance
Special low rates on car insurance. Get the coverage that fits your needs with a savings advantage from Travelers.
Fellowship Home Loans
A mortgage lender guided by honesty and integrity. AMAC members get a $1,000 credit towards closing costs.
Who We Are
Founded by Dan Weber in 2007, AMAC grew from concern for America’s seniors, the realization that good information, trusted insight, reliable news, and an all-American source of grounded guidance was missing.
Our Mission
Driven by the vision of our nation’s Founders, we strive to enrich the lives of all Americans by defending and upholding the inalienable rights secured by our Constitution, providing value through exceptional benefits and services, and delivering trustworthy news and information.
Our Vision
Become a leading advocate for enduring liberty and decency so that all Americans can enjoy freedom and the pursuit of the American dream.
Our Values
At AMAC, we believe in empowering the individual, offering maximum returns for membership, access to accurate, timely and valuable information, and honoring older Americans, from veterans to the timeless intergenerational bonds that define healthy families.
Our Team
Patriots. Fighters. It’s our people that drive the mission of AMAC.
Post ID: 534865
AMAC is the voice of conservative Americans who believe in the founding Fathers vision for our Constitutional Republic. Now more than ever we need our generation to make a stand for the preservation of this great Nation for our children and grandchildren, that is what AMAC stands for, and fights to do. I implore you to become a member of AMAC and make a difference for yourselves and the future of America.
-Allen West
Post ID: 534864
If you’re over 50 and think that the only place you can get all the benefits and discounts you’ve earned is AARP, think again - AMAC provides all the same and more and you don’t need to compromise your values
-Mark Levin
Post ID: 534859
If you’re anything at all like millions of other frustrated Americans looking for an alternative to AARP, then it's time to join conservatives at AMAC! We must stand together to defeat the left!
-Dana Loesch
-Glenn Beck
Stay informed! Subscribe to our Daily Newsletter.
*By providing your email address and subscribing, you agree to allow AMAC to send you "Join AMAC" emails, if you are not already an AMAC Member.
What We Do
The Association of Mature American Citizens (AMAC) is here to protect your interests, and to offer an alternative perspective on how to best solve the problems seniors face today. We need you. America needs you.
