Excel in PT Series: Empowering Future Practitioners with Confluent Health
Confluent Health’s “Excel in PT Series” is more than just a webinar – it’s your gateway to valuable insights and guidance from experienced professionals and new graduates as you navigate the transition from student to professional in the Physical Therapy industry. Each session covers different topics ranging anywhere from clinical education to personal and professional development.
Monday, October 7th at 6:00pm EST
This month’s experts: Joe Kostuch, Mariat Thankachan, Patrick Graham, and Rachel Hudgins of HPRC Physical Therapy.
Bridging the gap from student to therapist: Factors in choosing your first job and the role of clinical rotations in this decision
Private Practice distinctions: A student’s guide to job search success
Each Excel in PT Series virtual event is recorded and sent to all registrants – even if you cannot attend live, make sure to register so you don’t miss out on this valuable information! For questions or recommendations for future Excel in PT topics, please reach out to [email protected] .
Presenters
Joe Kostuch
Joseph Kostuch, PT, SCS, is a licensed Physical Therapist and the current Regional Director for HPRC. He also serves as our SCCE and University Recruiter. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin at LaCrosse in 1997 and has been employed with HPRC since 1998. Joe is an APTA Board Certified Clinical Specialist in Sports Physical Therapy (SCS). His current interests include shoulder rehabilitation, extremity orthopedics, and sports medicine. He is a member of the American Physical Therapy Association (APTA), Sports & Orthopedic Section of the APTA, and has served as the past District Director for PTAG (Physical Therapy Association of Georgia). Joe is also an Active Member and Past President of ASSET (American Society of Shoulder and Elbow Therapists). He lives with his wife, Krista, and their family in Greensboro, GA. His hobbies include boating, fitness, outdoor activities, and woodworking.
Mariat Thankachan
Mariat Thankachan is a licensed Physical Therapist at HPRC Horizons Diagnostics. Mariat is originally from south India but moved to Clarksdale, Mississippi when she was ten years old. Mariat graduated from Mississippi State University with her Bachelor’s of Science in Biological Sciences and then received her Doctorate of Physical Therapy from Mercer University in Atlanta, Georgia.
Mariat enjoys working with orthopedic patients of all ages, with special interest in chronic pain and spine rehabilitation. In her free time, she enjoys painting, camping, exploring new cities, and hiking national parks.
Patrick Graham
Patrick Graham, PT, is a licensed physical therapist and is president and chief operating officer of HPRC. He has been employed with HPRC since 1990. He received his B.S. degree in physical therapy in 1989 from Medical College of Georgia, and earned his MBA degree from Kennesaw State University in 1996. His specialties and interests are in orthopedics, spine rehabilitation and industrial rehabilitation. He is a member of the American Physical Therapy Association (APTA) and serves as vice president, board of directors, APTA, and also belongs to the APTA health policy and administration section. He lives with his wife, Susan, and their family in Columbus, GA, and hobbies include hunting, football and photography.
Rachel Hudgins
Rachel Hudgins graduated from Columbus State University with a Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology and then received her Doctor of Physical Therapy degree from The University of North Georgia in Dahlonega, Georgia. Rachel is a Pelvic Health Physical Therapist at our River Road location in Columbus, Georgia treating patients with pelvic floor dysfunction. In her free time, Rachel enjoys reading, working out, spending time with her family, and playing with her Australian Shepherd, Ruby.
Registration Form
Graduation Date *
Will you be attending the event live, or watching the recording afterwards?
I will be attending live
I will be watching the recording afterwards
Suggestions box for future topics
Name
Submit
Resources
Work/Life Balance
