Share this:
October 6, 2024 at 10:00 a.m.
Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine recently announced a state investment of $14 million to improve and expand meat harvesting and processing facilities across Ohio.
Fisher’s Country Market Inc. , 2917 state Route 61 in Norwalk, will receive $39,000, according to a news release.
“Meat harvesters and processors help keep our supply chain strong and our grocery stores and restaurants stocked,” DeWine said in the releas. “These grants will enable them to build better facilities and stay up-to-date with the latest industry trends.”
Through the fourth round of the Ohio Meat Processing Grant Program, 51 Ohio companies involved in the meat harvesting and processing industry across 33 counties will receive funding for the construction of new facilities or upgrades at existing facilities, the release said.
“Much of our meat today comes from large industrial farms and processors, and these grants help local farmers in Ohio serve their local customers with locally grown, high-quality meats,” said Lt. Gov. Jon Husted in the release. “These grants allow small businesses to create the efficiency and productivity they need to compete and provide locally grown food at an affordable price.”
Eligible costs include new and upgraded machinery, other equipment and technology products, and plant construction or expansion for confinement, processing, and refrigeration, according to the release.
The Ohio Meat Processing Grant Program was created by the DeWine-Husted Administration in 2022 with support from the Ohio General Assembly.
The Ohio Department of Development administers the program in collaboration with the Ohio Department of Agriculture.
“We are providing local businesses in this essential industry with the resources they need to grow and expand their facilities,” said Lydia Mihalik, director of the Department of Development, in the release. “For Ohio’s families, these investments ensure that they will continue to receive the high-quality products they have come to expect and love.”
“Ohio’s meat processing sector is critical to strengthening our number one industry — food and agriculture,” said Brian Baldridge, director of the Ohio Department of Agriculture, in the release. “Not only do they provide the highest quality choices for your family, but they also ensure the products are safe and healthy for you to eat.
“Another round of funding will provide support to Ohio’s hardworking meat processors.”
Across all four rounds of the program, a total of 179 grants have been awarded to meat processors in 62 of Ohio’s 88 counties, totaling nearly $42 million, the release said.
Share this:
Most Popular
Most Popular
Trending Nationally
