Listing ID: 1616401
Company / Organisation / Artist Name: Sabina Bilenko
Area of Fashion: Fashion Design & Production
Location: Central London, London, UK
Hours: Full Time
Reporting To: Creative Director
Ad Expires In: 1 month 4 hours
About: Sabina Bilenko is a Luxury womenswear brand that evokes emotion and creates aspiration by presenting exquisite craftsmanship and design in every couture and RTW collection.
The Senior RTW Womenswear Designer will be responsible for creating innovative, sophisticated designs that align with the brand’s aesthetic, while meeting commercial objectives and delivering unparalleled craftsmanship and quality.
Key Responsibilities:
Design and develop two women's RTW collections per year.
Stay up to date with fashion trends, competitor activities, and market demands, translating insights into design concepts.
Develop mood boards, colour palettes, and design concepts that reflect the brand's identity and cater to its target demographic.
Produce detailed sketches, illustrations and technical drawings to clearly communicate design ideas to pattern cutters and the production team.
Work closely with the Creative Director, merchandising, and production teams to ensure designs meet brand standards and production feasibility.
Oversee garment fittings, making necessary adjustments to ensure perfect fit, comfort, and quality for luxury clients.
Requirements:
A high level of creativity and craftsmanship.
Understanding how textures, drapes, and finishes contribute to the final product.
No sponsorship for employment visa status is required
Application
Apply with a CV, portfolio and cover letter outlining your suitability and interest.
Email Confirm *
Cover Letter *
Please provide your cover letter within the field provided, not as an attachment.  This field is strictly for including your cover letter text.  Thank you.
Post URL
Applicant Requirements
The recruiter would like you to confirm you meet the following requirements before your application can be sent. Please tick the following boxes to confirm you meet the requirements of the role. These requirements do need to be confirmed in order for your application to be sent
I have an intimate understanding of couture techniques. *
I have a high level of creativity and craftsmanship. *
I have an understanding how textures, drapes, and finishes contribute to the final product. *
I do NOT require sponsorship for employment visa status. *
Reply To
File Attachment
Attachment
PLEASE NOTE: When attaching your CV or work examples it is very important that you name your files to include your name and not just "cv.doc" or "curriculum vitae.docx" or "my_illustration.jpg".  Instead use a format like this "joe_bloggs_cv.docx" Files must be less than 4 MB. Allowed file types: txt pdf doc docx rtf jpg jpeg png
Files must be less than 4 MB.Allowed file types: txt pdf doc docx rtf jpg jpeg png.
Attachment
Files must be less than 4 MB.Allowed file types: txt pdf doc docx rtf jpg jpeg png.
Attachment
Files must be less than 4 MB.Allowed file types: txt pdf doc docx rtf jpg jpeg png.
Attachment
Files must be less than 4 MB.Allowed file types: txt pdf doc docx rtf jpg jpeg png.
Content Relationship
I am contacting the advertiser for no other reason than to apply for this position.  I am aware soliciting Fashion Workie users for other services or spamming is against the Terms & Conditions of usage.
I have carefully read the advert specification including details of where the position is based and provided details of any requirements stipulated in the advert  within my application.
Vertical Tabs
© Fashion Workie 2024 | Development by TimelessInteractive+
