October 2024
Right out of a fairytale: Breathtaking Mani in the fall. The perfect time to visit.
Dear friends, Happy October.
It’s been a busy few weeks. Returned to Mani last month discovering its villages, hidden beaches, and pirate history. Just got back from Sparta after following super athletes from all over the world who come to Greece every year to run the Spartathlon: a 152 mile (246K) race from Athens to Sparta. What an experience!
Stay tuned for more in the coming months.
Fall is a very busy time for the Greeks living in rural areas. It’s time to prepare the fine wines and famous olive oil. It’s also the absolute best time of the year to enjoy Greece in all its splendor. The colors, the weather, the smells are all intoxicating.
You get a chance to sit down with locals and enjoy a meze
as they share the tales of village life.
This month I’ve handpicked nine Greek islands that you can visit in the fall with tips on the weather of course, how to get there and the ‘must dos’. Autumn is also the ideal time to charter a sail boat or a yacht and discover the Greek islands in peace. The mad 'meltemi' winds die down so it’s smooth sailing from here.
My top fall recommendation is visiting Mani. Join me on a fantastic road trip
to an untouched land right out of a fairytale.
Undeniably, the most important thing in life is good health and the ancient Greeks knew this very well. This month, I introduce you to the healing god Asclepius, the goddess of health Hygeia, the ancient Greek wellness centers,
and where to find them.
Lastly, for the early planners or for those who simply can’t get enough of Greece, some handpicked gift ideas for your Greece-loving friends and family.
Dear friends, thank you all for your warm support and feedback. I hope that together we can make TheGreekVibe.com grow even more. Share with friends.
Word of mouth always does wonders.
In Greece, after our last summer swim (and ice cream), it’s customary to wish each other “Kalo Fthinoporo” – so “good autumn” it is!
Maria Paravantes
Best Way to Recharge: Sailing and Yachting in Greece
Sailing Greek waters with a small sailboat or a luxury yacht is a dream vacation and the ultimate way to discover secret coves and amazing beaches. This is all you need to know.
Going on a Road Trip to Mesa Mani
The most exciting road trip in Greece? Four days in Mesa Mani. A four-day itinerary, the sites, the people and the magic. Fall is the perfect time to visit Mani and its Medieval stone towers as it gets very, very hot in the summer.
Unlocking the Secrets of the Asclepions: Greece's Ancient Wellness Centers
An exciting journey into the ancient Greek healing centers, the Asclepions, all about the Greek gods of health and healing, and the secrets of wellbeing.
Great Greek Islands to Visit in November
A handpicked selection of Greek islands for a vacation to Greece in the fall complete with tips on the weather, how to get there, and the 'must dos'.
Fantastic Gift Ideas for Greece-loving Friends and Family
You can never get enough of Greece but you can always carry a bit of Greece in your heart with these 16 fantastic gifts for friends, family or even yourself. Start here for inspiration.
If you enjoy reading The Greek Vibe newsletters then why not share with a friend?
Forward this mail over to them and they can sign up here .
