Free Flu Vaccines for Employees, Students Available Beginning Oct. 1
By Tyrel Linkhorn
The University of Toledo will begin offering free flu shots to faculty, staff and students on Tuesday, Oct. 1.
UToledo requires an annual influenza vaccine for all on-campus students and employees who are not represented by a bargaining unit, as well as all healthcare workers at the University of Toledo Medical Center and University clinics.
UToledo will begin offering free flu shots to faculty, staff and students on Tuesday, Oct. 1.
On Main Campus, influenza vaccines will be available from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Monday through Friday at the University Health Center.
On Health Science Campus, vaccines will be available at the outpatient pharmacy in The University of Toledo Medical Center Medical Pavilion. The pharmacy will have vaccines available throughout October and November on Tuesdays from 7 a.m. to noon; on Wednesdays from 8 a.m. to noon; on Thursdays from 2 to 6 p.m.; and on Fridays from 8 a.m. to noon.
UToledo also will host a number of pop-up vaccination clinics on both campuses, beginning Oct. 2 on Health Science Campus with a clinic from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the lobby of the Collier Building on Health Science Campus.
A full schedule of all on-campus vaccination events is available on the University’s Flu Prep website .
Additional vaccination opportunities will be available to UToledo Health employees at several clinical locations.
No appointments are needed at any of the on-campus vaccination sites, though individuals do need to complete a consent form, available at influenza.utoledo.edu , prior to getting their shot.
Individuals who are required by the University to be vaccinated against influenza must provide proof of vaccination prior to Dec. 1.
The University’s vaccine requirement does not apply to students who are taking 100% of their courses online or employees who are working 100% remotely and do not come to campus. UToledo also may grant exemptions to the influenza vaccine requirement on a case-by-case basis for documented medical contraindications or sincerely held religious beliefs.
Individuals who wish to request an exemption have until the end of the day on Tuesday, Oct. 15. Exemption forms are available for download at utvaccinereg.utoledo.edu .
Faculty, staff and students who are vaccinated on campus will have their proof of vaccination uploaded automatically. Those who receive their flu shot elsewhere must upload proof of vaccination at utvaccinereg.utoledu.edu prior to Dec. 1.
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends annual influenza vaccination for everyone 6 months and older.
The CDC also recommends that everyone 6 months and older should get a 2024-2025 COVID-19 vaccine . UToledo encourages, but does not require, require faculty, staff and students to be vaccinated against COVID-19.
COVID-19 vaccines will be available through UToledo beginning Tuesday, Oct. 1, at both the outpatient pharmacy in the UTMC Medical Pavilion and the main campus pharmacy.
Insurance will be billed for the COVID-19 vaccine. Employees with health insurance through the University will have no out-of-pocket expense. Copays for students and employees who do not have health insurance through UToledo will depend on their individual health plan benefits.
© 2024 THE UNIVERSITY OF TOLEDO • 2801 W. Bancroft St. • Toledo, OH 43606 • 800.586.5336
