By Ashleigh Fields,
9 days ago
A Fulton County judge determined that Georgia voting machines are secure ahead of this year’s general election in a Friday ruling after some state Republicans argued they were defective, labeling the security risks “purely hypothetical.”
DeKalb County Republicans argued that Dominion voting machines were faulty and requested to review photographic records of ballots within 24 hours after the election. However, Judge Scott McAfee denied their request noting that it wouldn’t provide any proof of machine breaches.
“There is not much credibility in the claim,” said Elizabeth Young, who represents Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger’s office, in court.
Nonetheless, GOP lawyer Harry MacDougald used witnesses’ oral testimony to paint a picture of a system that allowed fraudulent voter activity. However, none of them could point out specific vulnerabilities.
“I fear they are just attempting to lay the groundwork for challenging the election based on further exposing the serious weaknesses of the system, demonstrating that the results can be manipulated,” said Marilyn Marks, executive director of the Coalition for Good Governance, a nonprofit voting rights organization .
Georgia first purchased Dominion Voting Systems in 2019 and implemented its use in 2020. Since then, claims arose about its illegitimacy, which Dominion’s attorneys have adamantly denied in court .
To date, state officials remain confident in the voting machines voters are expected to use in the 2024 election.
Expand All
5d ago
The election deniers are destroying the integrity of our democratic process in every way shape and form !! They claim fraud when their candidate looses, but are quick to legitimize an election when their candidate wins. They are hypocrites no matter how you look at it !!!
Reply
0
ReeRee Harris
6d ago
Worries me that Trump has wayyy more sense than every single last one of his cuIt members. Too many brainwashed individuals on the loose.
Reply
0
Local News
The Hill8 hours ago
The Hill1 day ago
Uncovering Florida16 days ago
Uncovering Florida20 days ago
The Hill19 hours ago
David Heitz5 days ago
The Hill2 days ago
WyoFile13 days ago
The Hill1 day ago
The Hill1 day ago
The Hill4 hours ago
David Heitz11 days ago
Email
Subscribe
By signing up for our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy .
It’s essential to note our commitment to transparency: Our Terms of Use acknowledge that our services may not always be error-free, and our Community Standards emphasize our discretion in enforcing policies. As a platform hosting over 100,000 pieces of content published daily, we cannot pre-vet content, but we strive to foster a dynamic environment for free expression and robust discourse through safety guardrails of human and AI moderation.
Comments / 0
