Puttanesca Pasta Salad
Originally published July 2016.
This versatile pasta puttanesca salad is one that I came up with simply to use up a bounty of tomatoes that were in the fridge. As often happens at this time of year, we are guilty of  buying more produce than we consume.
Today it was a combination of vine ripened hothouse tomatoes and some leftover grape tomatoes that needed some attention.
Cherry tomatoes are great for this recipe too.
My solution to this is often to make a quick cooked puttanesca sauce to serve over pasta for dinner. Very much like I use  in our Sausage Pasta Puttanesca .
I make pasta puttanesca often around here. I add grilled chicken, sausage for even some meatballs that we’ve frozen when making Spaghetti and Meatballs .
Kalamata Olives are what I prefer for this recipe but use any you have on hand or use a vegetable like cucumber or bell peppers instead.
A versatile side dish or a meal in itself.
My original pasta puttanesca sauce recipe is what I followed for this puttanesca pasta salad and then I just added some balsamic vinegar plus a little extra virgin olive oil to it to make it a bit more like a salad dressing.
I originally intended to to make this only as an experiment for a cold pasta salad but tasting it while it was still hot, the whole family was suddenly dishing up samples in small ramekins because it was so good.
Penne pasta is also easily substituted for the rigatoni.
Once it did cool down it was still very tasty cold, making it ideal to serve as a side dish at a BBQ or to take along on a picnic. Served hot it could easily be a vegetarian meal in itself or to serve as a side dish with grilled chicken or fish for a more complete meal.
It’s great to have a recipe that you can enjoy in so many ways.
If you can’t get enough of great pasta dinner recipes, please check out our collection of 20 Best Pasta Dinners !
Like this Puttanesca Pasta Salad recipe?
Find many other ideas like this in our Side Dishes Category and more Italian inspired dishes in our Italian Category .
It’s easy to keep up with the latest home style cooking & baking ideas from Rock Recipes. Be sure to follow Rock Recipes Facebook Page and follow us on Instagram .
Plus you’ll see daily recipe suggestions from decadent desserts to quick delicious weekday meals too.
You can also sign up for our FREE newsletter to know immediately when we add new recipes. You’ll also get weekly suggestions for great family friendly  meals and desserts too!
Puttanesca Pasta Salad - delicious hot or cold!
Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook Time: 10 minutes
Total Time: 20 minutes
Puttanesca Pasta Salad - a simple and delicious pasta salad with the bright tomato flavour of a puttanesca sauce that can be served hot or cold.
Print
Ingredients
3 cups uncooked dry rotini pasta rigatoni works well too
3 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
1 medium red onion minced
3 cloves garlic minced
1 tsp brown sugar
½ tsp chilli flakes or 2 tbsp hot sauce optional
1 teaspoon anchovy paste optional
3 tbsp chopped capers optional
Additionally you will need
3 tbsp balsamic vinegar
Instructions
Boil the pasta in well salted water as instructed on the package until al dente. Be careful not to overcook the pasta.
Meanwhile, in a large sauté pan, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the garlic and onions and sauté for about a minute or two until the onions soften but do not brown.
Turn heat to high and toss in the olives, tomatoes, brown sugar, chilli flakes, anchovy paste and capers and cook until the tomatoes just start to break down.
Add the red pepper and basil and cook for an additional few minutes until the juice from the tomatoes has mostly cooked off.
Season the sauce with salt and pepper to taste.
Remove from the heat and stir in the 1/4 cup olive oil and the balsamic vinegar.
Toss the sauce with the cooked pasta and chopped basil.
Whether serving this salad hot or cold, you can still serve it with a sprinkle of finely grated parmesan cheese if you like.
Notes
I realized after I had taken the photo that I forgot to add the chopped basil! I did toss it in at the end.
Nutrition Information
Amount Per Serving Calories 231Total Fat 15gSaturated Fat 2gTrans Fat 0gUnsaturated Fat 12gCholesterol 0mgSodium 195mgCarbohydrates 21gFiber 3gSugar 6gProtein 4g
The nutritional information provided is automatically calculated by third party software and is meant as a guideline only. Exact accuracy is not guaranteed. For recipes where all ingredients may not be used entirely, such as those with coatings on meats, or with sauces or dressings for example, calorie & nutritional values per serving will likely be somewhat lower than indicated.
Did you like this recipe?
Do you love our "Real food recipes for real people'? Share the recipe on Facebook to let your friends know about us. They'll thank you for it.
© Copyright Barry C. Parsons 2021
Cuisine: Italian Inspired / Category: Salads
753 shares
Recipe Rating
Recipe Rating
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.
Δ
HELLO! WELCOME TO ROCK RECIPES “One of the Best Food Blogs in Canada” – The National Post
Hi, I'm Barry. I'm Dad to 2 amazing kids, author of 5 best-selling cookbooks, a freelance food writer & full time blogger. My lifetime love of cooking & baking has led me to share over 1800 recipes on this blog over the last 15 years. Come back often, there's always great new food & recipes coming out of my St. John's, Newfoundland kitchen!
Search over 1800 Recipes
You can read our Privacy Policy here .
ALL CONTENT COPYRIGHT © 2024 ROCK RECIPES  | Birch on Trellis Framework by Mediavine
