From beloved Saturday Night Live alum Kate McKinnon comes a madcap new adventure about three sisters, a ravenous worm, and a mysterious mad scientist.
So, you want to be a young mad scientist. Congratulations! Admitting it is the first step. The second step is reading the (definitely true) tale of the Porch sisters…
Gertrude, Eugenia, and Dee-Dee Porch do not belong. They don’t belong in the snooty town of Antiquarium, where all girls have to go to etiquette school and the only dog allowed is the bichon frise.
From SONY.
Disney and Pixar’s “Inside Out 2” returns to the mind of newly minted teenager Riley just as headquarters is disrupted by something entirely unexpected: new Emotions! Joy, Sadness, Anger, Fear and Disgust aren’t sure how to feel when Anxiety and friends show up.
From PARAMOUNT.
Reacher Season Two begins when veteran military police investigator Jack Reacher receives a coded message that the members of his former U. S. Army unit are being mysteriously and brutally murdered one by one. Pulled from his drifter lifestyle, Reacher reunites with three of his former teammates turned chosen family to investigate. Together, they begin to connect the dots in a mystery where the stakes get higher at every turn and bring about questions of who has betrayed them and who will die next.
In Electronic Format From the #1 New York Times bestselling author of Sapiens comes the groundbreaking story of how information networks have made, and unmade, our world.
For the last 100,000 years, we Sapiens have accumulated enormous power. But despite allour discoveries, inventions, and conquests, we now find ourselves in an existential crisis. The world is on the verge of ecological collapse. Misinformation abounds. And we are rushing headlong into the age of AI—a new information network that threatens to annihilate us. For all that we have accomplished, why are we so self-destructive?
In Electronic Format A propulsive and uncommonly wise novel about one unexpected wedding guest and the surprising people who help us start anew.
It's a beautiful day in Newport, Rhode Island, when Phoebe Stone arrives at the grand Cornwall Inn wearing a green dress and gold heels, not a bag in sight, alone. She's immediately mistaken by everyone in the lobby for one of the wedding people, but she’s actually the only guest at the Cornwall who isn’t here for the big event.
From PARAMOUNT.
The new live-action series will follow Knuckles on a hilarious and action-packed journey of self-discovery as he agrees to train Wade as his protégé and teach him the ways of the Echidna warrior.
"Remember, you are bound by the Official Secrets Act..."
Summer, 1940. Nineteen-year-old Jakob Novis and his quirky younger sister Lizzie share a love of riddles and puzzles. And now they’re living inside of one. The quarrelsome siblings find themselves amidst one of the greatest secrets of World War II—Britain’s eccentric codebreaking factory at Bletchley Park.
In Electronic Format Two women, centuries apart—one of whom is the real author of Shakespeare’s plays—are both forced to hide behind another name to make their voices heard.
In 1581, Emilia Bassano—like most young women of her day—is allowed no voice of her own. But as the Lord Chamberlain’s mistress, she has access to all theater in England, and finds a way to bring her work to the stage secretly. And yet, creating some of the world’s greatest dramatic masterpieces comes at great cost: by paying a man for the use of his name, she will write her own out of history.
The Black Death was a pandemic of unimaginable propotions, taking the lives of 75 - 200 million people worldwide. Lauren Tarshis's story of one girl surviving the plague pulses with terror, action, and hope.
In this gripping story about the first wave of the plague, I Survived readers will travel to medieval England -- a time of knights and peasants; cathedrals and castles -- when the most deadly disease in world history sweeps across Europe and parts of Asia and Africa.
Knight Owl makes an unlikely friend in the over-zealous Early Bird—who hopes to be a brave knight, too—in this exciting next adventure to the New York Times bestselling and Caldecott Honor award-winning classic.
Early Bird wants to be brave and protect the castle, just like Knight Owl. But she falls asleep on the job and then keeps her hero up during the day with her enthusiastic chattiness, well-meaning questions, and cheerful owl impersonations. But there are strange happenings in the forest, and soon Knight Owl and Early Bird find themselves in the throes of danger.
Three estranged siblings return to their family home in New York after their beloved sister’s death in this unforgettable story of grief, hope, and the complexities of family, from the acclaimed author of Cleopatra and Frankenstein.
“Sparkling with wit, shot through with longing, Blue Sisters is a beautiful novel, both dazzlingly joyful and achingly sad.”
—Jenny Jackson, New York Times bestselling author of Pineapple Street
The three Blue sisters are exceptional—and exceptionally different.
History is a flood. The mighty red . . .
In Argus, North Dakota, a collection of people revolve around a fraught wedding.
Gary Geist, a terrified young man set to inherit two farms, is desperate to marry Kismet Poe, an impulsive, lapsed Goth who can't read her future but seems to resolve his.
A painting has been stolen…!
When Rami sees a floating girl in the museum, he knows he has seen her somewhere before. Then he realizes: She looks just like the girl in the painting that has gone missing.
From Decal Neon.
BABES follows childhood best friends Eden and Dawn, now in different phases of adulthood. When single Eden decides to have a baby on her own after a one-night stand, their friendship faces its greatest challenge.
"A little evil and a whole lotta fun."
--Kirkus Reviews
WANTED: TOP SECRET PLAN
Katie is rocking 7th grade and being a superhero sidekick, so when a new threat puts the whole city in danger she's ready to spring into action!
This title introduces readers to some of the most popular and influential video games of all time. Readers will learn about iconic characters, renowned game developers, and how the world of video games has changed from the 1950s to today. Features include a glossary, additional resources, and an index. Aligned to Common Core Standards and correlated to state standards.
