Join us for Appalachia’s Premier Event
Join us for the 2024 SOAR Summit, presented by Appalachian Wireless and the Appalachian Regional Commission , taking place on October 16-18 in Pikeville.
Appalachia’s premier event will transform Pikeville into an immersive experience featuring programming, workshops, and networking opportunities that will Inspire, Innovate, and Impact. The Summit will utilize various venues across downtown Pikeville, including the University of Pikeville , the Appalachian Center for the Arts , New Beginnings Fellowship Church , the Appalachian Wireless Arena , and more.
Seats are limited, so secure your spot today.
Presented By
Featured Speakers
Andy Beshear
Kimberly S. McCann
Nate Morris
Jane Brady Knight
Text Us!
Have questions or need help finding your way at the SOAR Summit? We’ve got you covered! Simply text “SUMMIT” to 606-221-6262 to instantly connect with a member of our team. Whether you need directions, assistance with the agenda, or answers to any questions, we’re just a message away.
Become a sponsor of the SOAR Summit
Appalachia’s premier event is made possible through the support of Shaping Our Appalachian Region’s corporate partners and event sponsors.
If your business or organization would like to be a sponsor of the Summit, contact Kirsten Wilburn at kirsten@soar-ky.org , or complete the form below to learn more about these opportunities.
Experience exclusive benefits at the 2024 SOAR Summit with our Blueprint Partner registration. For $300, you’ll gain access to partner-exclusive programming, pre-summit workshops, networking opportunities, receptions, and other special events.
By registering as a Blueprint Partner, a portion of your fee directly supports SOAR’s Blueprint Partner Program, which invests in community events and programming throughout Kentucky’s Appalachian region each year.
Blueprint Partner registration is limited, so secure your place early to ensure you don’t miss out on this unique opportunity to contribute to and participate in the advancement of our region.
Remember your SOAR Summit experience with an exclusive t-shirt!
Support Eastern Kentucky in style by purchasing a 2024 SOAR Summit T-shirt. Once you purchase your T-shirt, make sure to pick it up in-person at the SOAR Summit on October 16-18.
T-shirts cost $25 each plus tax and come in sizes S-4XL.
Buy yours today!
Located on the 6th floor of the Health Professions Education Building
Have a question about the agenda? Need help setting up the app? Not sure where to go next? Our Tech Help Desk is here to assist you with all your Summit-related needs. Whether it’s navigating the schedule, troubleshooting the SOAR Summit app, or finding directions, our team is ready to help!
2023 Summit By The Numbers
0
attendees
0
companies
0
speakers
0
states
Let’s make it official
Get email updates with information about the next Shaping Our Appalachian Region Summit.
© 2024 Shaping Our Appalachian Region. All Rights Reserved.
Menu
