Notify Me When Available
Launched in 1991, the Total Image Collagen Tablets function as a collagen supplement for your skin to deliver a more youthful and healthier looking you. Formulated with a powerful humectant, the pure hydrolysed protein acts by trapping moisture on the skin’s surface while its finer molecules can effectively penetrate the skin cell membrane.
The Total Image Collagen Tablets are certified Halal by the Islamic Services of America, making it safe to consume by Muslims.
Benefits of Collagen Supplement
• Reduce dark eye circles
• Promote radiant & healthier skin
Serving Suggestion
• 1 tablet daily on an empty stomach (preferably before breakfast for optimal results)
• Collagen 60s - 1 Bonus Voucher
• Collagen Twin Pack - 2 Bonus Vouchers
5 ★
87%
41
4 ★
13%
6
3 ★
0%
0
2 ★
0%
0
1 ★
0%
0
Reviews
Questions
Questions
Yes
No
Photos
Upload
Thank you for submitting a review!
Your input is very much appreciated. Share it with your friends so they can enjoy it too!
Filter Reviews:
Clear filter
More Filters
Collagen
Have been using this product for many years. Has good quality. Will continue using it.
MN
09/09/2024
TB
08/09/2024
COLLAGEN
I have been taking this products for empteen years. I find the product good and I can see my face radiant and smooth.
I have confident in this product. Would highly recommend anyone who wish to try it.
MS
28/08/2024
good quality product
quick delivery
will continue my support to Total Image due to good quality products & service
YL
24/08/2024
Skin Food
After recovering from a bad eczema flare, I started taking collagen, and it really helped. Especially during menopause, when the skin tends to be very dry, taking collagen helps minimize the dryness, which reduces itching. Total Image Collagen is affordable and easily available at Watsons.
1. Unless stated otherwise, all deliveries will be carried out via courier companies appointed by Total Image Regional (M) Sdn Bhd only. Please do not use a P.O. Box address for delivery.
2. All deliveries are within Malaysia only and will be free of charge with any purchase.
3. It is customer’s obligation to ensure the accuracy of the delivery address details entered at the time of ordering. Should an invalid or wrong address be keyed in by the customer, Total Image Regional (M) Sdn Bhd is not obliged to re-deliver the order(s) to the correct address at the said company’s expense.
4. Total Image Regional (M) Sdn Bhd is responsible for only ONE time delivery charge for purchase orders.
5. The average lead time for delivery is 3-5 working days from the stated shipping date. Total Image Regional (M) Sdn Bhd will align with its courier partners to work their best to deliver the orders by the average delivery time. However, Total Image Regional (M) Sdn Bhd is not liable for any damages, lost or overdue deliveries caused by 3rd party courier partners.
6. Total Image Regional (M) Sdn Bhd reserve the rights to amend the Shipping & Delivery terms & conditions without prior notice.
Collagen
RM72.00
RM32.00
SIGN UP FOR THE LATEST NEWS, PRODUCT RELEASES AND OFFERS
Subscribe
Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.
[split_t4nt][split_t4nt][split_t4nt][split_t4nt]
