Click the pic!
Search for:
Recent Posts
Send to Kindle
The Sunday Flyover Replay : Israel expands its offensive in Lebanon; Halloween Spending Dips in 2024; Best Small-Chain Restaurant in Every State
Presented by Russell Sherrard,
Narrated by Artificial Intelligence, Our Hosts are Christopher and Jenny,
THE FLYOVER,
Good Morning! On this day in 1866, the Reno Gang staged the first train robbery in American history, stealing $13,000 from an Ohio and Mississippi railroad train in Jackson County, Indiana.
As you consider your breakfast options, take a look at our item below ranking the 50 best cereals of all time. Let us know which is your favorite by emailing Russell Sherrard at russellsherrard@reagan.com.
We hope you enjoyed reading today’s Flyover. Let us know how we’re doing by replying to Russell Sherrard at russellsherrard@reagan.com.
The sponsors keep the tanks full around here. Be sure to check out today’s sponsors.
TAKEOFF,
Israel expands its offensive in Lebanon,
Israel killed two Hamas leaders as it broadened its bombardment of Lebanon on Saturday, striking as far north as Tripoli, Lebanon’s second-biggest city.
The Israeli military also targeted Hashem Safieddine, the potential successor to lead Hezbollah. Safieddine hasn’t been heard from since the Israeli attack, sources say.
The widening war has sent thousands of Lebanese fleeing their homes. Rallies and counter-rallies are planned worldwide for Monday’s one-year anniversary of the Oct. 7 attack on Israeli civilians by Hamas terrorists.
President Joe Biden on Friday urged Israel to consider alternatives to striking Iranian oil infrastructure. On Saturday, Israeli media reported that the top U.S. general for the Middle East, Army General Michael Kurilla, had landed in Israel.
Halloween Spending Dips in 2024,
U.S. consumers are projected to spend $11.6 billion this year on Halloween costumes, decorations, and candy, down from last year’s $12.2 billion,
That total works out to more than $100 per person for the holiday, though how it’s spent can vary by state and region, at least in terms of preferred costumes.
Witches are especially popular in the northwest; the southwest favors Spiderman, and Maine and Florida can’t get enough pirates.
List: Best Small-Chain Restaurant in Every State,
Every state offers at least one popular local restaurant that becomes a small chain—big enough to open another location or two without expanding nationally.
In Louisiana, a hot dog chain called Dat Dog offers alligator, duck, and fish-based sausages with over 30 toppings. In Idaho, it’s hard to go wrong at Boise Fry Co., and Gino’s East in Illinois has mastered the deep-dish pizza.
After a word from one of our sponsors Jenny will be Narrating the last half of the news.
And Now, A word From one of Our Sponsors,
Are you an author or writer with a Blog and wonder if it is being effective? I have added audio to my blog posts and am getting good comments. I can add voice to your blog posts. You choose Male/Female $10 per post. Direct your inquiries to russellsherrard@reagan.com
Thanks Christopher,
SPORTS AND ENTERTAINMENT,
Vanderbilt beat No. 1 Alabama 40-35 in a stunning upset victory Saturday, the school’s first win over the Crimson Tide since 1984.
Texas A&M dominated Missouri 41-10 in the only Top 25 matchup in college football’s sixth week, and Georgia defeated Auburn 31-13.
New York Giants star rookie receiver Malik Nabers has been ruled out for today’s NFL action, as has Houston Texans running back Joe Mixon. Meanwhile, whether Indianapolis Colts quarterback Anthony Richardson plays will be a game-time decision.
Japanese superstar pitcher Tomoyuki Sugano is heading to the American major leagues next season. Sugano is 35 and was a four-time ERA champion in Japan.
2024 Election Countdown,
Election Countdown: 30 Days,
Former President Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris are deadlocked in the Nov. 5 race, according to poll results released late last week. A new survey shows the two tied at 47% among the 2,437 likely voters polled Sept. 11-16.
Campaigning Friday, Trump said he would rename North Carolina’s Fort Liberty to Fort Bragg if elected. The army base was renamed less than two years ago to move away from the legacy of a Confederate general, Braxton Bragg.
Democratic strategists say they’re concerned that their candidate is holding fewer events than Trump and running a passive, do-no-harm campaign that could backfire.
FINANCE,
The Dow Jones Index rose 300 points Friday to a record close after a better-than-expected jobs report gave a broad lift to the market.
Despite last week’s agreement on wages, the International Longshoremen’s Association and port owners are still at odds over automation, and work could stop again on Jan. 15.
Mortgage rates rose following Friday’s strong employment numbers. The average 30-year fixed mortgage rate jumped to 6.53%.
THE ROTATOR, SUNDAY REWING,
Ladies and gentlemen, our most-read stories of the week. Enjoy!
In the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Helene, this video showed the flooding that devastated Asheville, N.C.
A man had an intense showdown with a full-grown moose, capturing it on video before the moose decided enough was enough.
Need a cheap, tiny house? You can get one on Amazon for $19,000, and it includes a balcony.
QUICK HITS,
Baby names follow trends, and here are the top 10 trends that will influence baby names in 2025.
Nike announced the winner of its “Small World in Motion” contest for best videos of activity in the microscopic world.
In-Depth: The comet Tsuchinshan-ATLAS has been dubbed the “comet of the century” and will be visible around the globe. Here’s how to watch.
Cat memes are a staple of the Internet era, but 100 years ago they were sent by postcard and often had a political message.
Test your knowledge by playing this web-based game that offers pairs of cultural achievements and asks: Which came first?
Cereal-lovers of the world, here it is: A ranking of the 50 best breakfast cereals of all time.
Daily Quote,
“These races are decathlons, and there are a lot of events, and you have to do all of them because people want to test you.”
— Political consultant David Axelrod on the dangers of the Harris campaign’s low-profile strategy.
And thats the news for today.
And Now, A word From one of Our Sponsors,
Before we go let me tell you about one of the books found on my Bookstore,
Go to https:// payhip.com/ Christian NonFiction eBookStore then scroll down and click on Spurgeons’ Morning and Evening Devotionals.
Organized by month, this devotional has a morning and evening meditation for every day of the year. Although these devotions are short in length, they are filled with spiritual goodness. In just a few sentences, Spurgeon is able to convey the wisdom of Scripture with eloquence and purpose. These daily messages provide Christians with the spiritual energy they need to begin and end each day. Spurgeon weaves a verse of Scripture into each devotion, helping readers draw deeper meaning out of the selected passages. This powerful devotional provides Christians with the spiritual nourishment required to strengthen their relationships with God. Readers will find themselves inspired by Spurgeon’s Morning and Evening Devotionals.
https://graceandfaith4u.com/posts/the-sunday-flyover-replay-israel-expands-its-offensive-in-lebanon-halloween-spending-dips-in-2024-best-small-chain-restaurant-in-every-state/
Comment *
Name *
Email *
Website
Get news from GNF authors right to your FB feed!
