McCarter Classes
McCarter offers an array of in-person classes for students grades K-12 and for adults. Each class fosters a supportive and creative environment where every student is free to explore, play, and develop their unique artistic voice.
Whether you're a newcomer to theater or a seasoned performer, McCarter's classes offer meaningful and joyful learning experiences for students of all ages.
Grades K-2
McCarter offers Saturday classes as well. Discover more about our Saturday class offerings and join us for an enriching weekend experience!
McCarter Theatre Center is dedicated to serving those students who are interested and excited about experiencing our unique programming. We encourage families who are considering not participating in our programs because of monetary issues to apply for financial aid, which is provided by several individual sponsors, corporate and foundation funding, and the State of New Jersey. If you're interested, please download this form.
Questions?
We've put together a list of frequently asked questions for In-Person Classes.
If you have specific questions about payments or registration, email patronservices@mccarter.org .
If you have specific questions about class content, structure, or accessibility services for education classes, email classes@mccarter.org .
FAQs
Online registration began on July 30th, 2024.
Registration is online only—no phone, email, or mail applications are accepted.
To register, please go to www.mccarter.org/inperson-classes
What is the schedule for McCarter’s in-person classes?
Classes run throughout the week from September 2024-June 2025. For individual schedules, please visit the class registration link.
What age groups are eligible to enroll in McCarter’s after school programs?
We offer classes for K-12th grade students and adults.
How much does each class cost?
Class costs vary depending on the length of the sessions. Check the individual classes for rates.
What is the enrollment capacity in each session?
Each class has a maximum capacity of 14-16 students.
Where will the sessions take place?
Classes will take place in professional rehearsal studios inside McCarter Theatre Center.
When is payment due?
Payment is due at the time of registration. We are unable to offer payment plans at this time, but information about financial assistance is listed below.
Can I apply for a scholarship or financial assistance?
Need-based scholarships and financial assistance are available to qualifying families. Please click here and complete the application. Email your materials to classes@mccarter.org . A McCarter representative will reach out to you with the next steps once we've received your materials.
Can I receive a full refund if I need to cancel a class?
To receive a full refund for a class, you must notify us by email at least two weeks prior to the start of that class ( classes@mccarter.org ). After that time, no refunds or exchanges will be processed.
Will there be a final performance for invited guests at the end of each session?
Most classes culminate in a final sharing or an open class so parents and invited guests can view the students' creative work.  Information about each culminating event will be communicated to families involved with those classes.
Who is teaching the McCarter in-person classes?
McCarter’s teaching artists include professional actors, directors, choreographers, musicians, and visual artists. All teaching staff has completed a criminal background check.
Unforgettable live performances.
Patron Services Office
Phone: 609-258-2787
