This didactic presentation & hands-on workshop is designed for anyone at any career level. Meaningful leadership requires people who can influence others toward a common mission and goal.
2201 N Stemmons Fwy Dallas, TX 75207
The field of rehabilitation is at a critical point, requiring strong leadership to substantiate and promote its role in facilitating recovery and health in people with disability.
ABOUT THE COURSE
Know what you want to get accomplished, but not how to put it into a plan that will guide progress, gain buy-in, and secure resources? This workshop will give you practical tools and a flexible process to lead others through the planning process or develop a plan yourself. During this workshop, you will learn why and how to map stakeholders, do visioning, set measurable objectives, analyze opportunities and barriers, develop actionable initiatives, prioritize the work, and sell the plan to leadership for approval. We will use a case study to bring the concepts to life, and you will walk away with tools and templates that you can use for your own plans.
“This course was created to empower the ACRM and rehabilitation medicine researchers and evidence-based practitioners to be the voices to move the field forward.”
Pamela Roberts, PhD, OTR/L, SCFES, FAOTA, CPHQ, FNAP, FACRM
ACRM President, Cedars-Sinai
THE PRESENTERS
ProfessorUniversity of Cincinnati and Cincinnati Children’s
Pamela S. Roberts, PhD, OTR/L, SCFES, FAOTA, CPHQ, FNAP, FACRM
Executive Director and ProfessorCedars-Sinai Medical Center
Deborah Backus, PT, PhD, FACRM
ACRM Past President; Vice President of Research and InnovationShepherd Center
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
Discuss the need for strong leadership to advance rehabilitation medicine
Identify their leadership strengths and define their leadership style
Begin to identify ways to use their style to influence change and innovation in rehabilitation medicine and research
Describe ways to leverage their leadership style for more effective communication with diverse partners, collaborators, employees, and stakeholders
WHO SHOULD ATTEND?
All healthcare providers, researchers, administrators and clinicians who are eager to enhance their communications and leadership skills. All levels from early career through mid-career and beyond.
REGISTER
This course is INCLUDED in the WORLD-PASS for tremendous value.
About the Hilton Anatole
The Hilton Anatole in Dallas is an extraordinary venue & the perfect scene for the collaboration, in-depth learning, and connections made at the ACRM Annual Fall Conference.
The space is lovely, showcasing the largest art collection of any American hotel, with works ranging from paintings and sculpture to a piece of the Berlin Wall.
Open and inviting, the Anatole is designed for artful collaboration. There’s plenty of public seating for impromptu meetings, two full-service restaurants, two counter-service cafes, a contemporary bar, shopping, spa, outdoor circuit trail, world-class gym, indoor pool and more—all onsite.
EXPERIENCE Dallas
ACRM has secured incredible savings on Hilton with the negotiated rate of $250/night (and government rates as low as $170) — unheard of prices these days for a premium hotel.
As an additional bonus you may extend your stay at these fantastic ACRM-discounted rates for up to three days prior to and three days post-conference, subject to availability.
Book today at the headquarters Hilton, visit ACRM.org/venue .
TOP REASONS
HEADQUARTERS HILTON Anatole
BEST NETWORKING — Don’t miss out on chance encounters with your next employer, your next collaborator or new best friend.
SAVE MONEY — the best rates are available only through ACRM
As low as $170 (government) and $250/night.
ACRM has the lowest specially-negotiated room rates that are $38-50+ less per night than found elsewhere.
Generous cancellation policy. Ability to cancel anytime before 72 hours of arrival without penalty. Details on booking page.
There is NO COST to make the reservation.
Rooms are subject to availability and will likely sell out at these great rates.
Don’t delay, reserve today.
CONVENIENCE — you are only an elevator ride away from everything ACRM
SAVE TIME — staying right in the ACTION
TREAT YOURSELF to the luxury and beauty of the Hilton Anatole:
Home to a valuable fine art collection of more than 1,000 pieces including part of the Berlin Wall
4 exceptional onsite restaurants
V Spa specialty facials, massages and more.
4 ON-SITE DINING OPTIONS
ACRM 101st Annual Conference #ACRM2024Progress in Rehabilitation Research | Translation to Clinical PracticeHILTON Anatole • DALLAS, TX, USA • 31 OCT – 3 NOV 2024 // PRE-CON: 29 – 31 OCT
Copyright © 2024 ACRM | American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. All rights reserved.
Advertisements on this site do not constitute a guarantee or endorsement by the journal, association,or publisher of the quality or value of such product or of the claims made for it by its manufacturer.
