Out of gifts for the month
Unfortunately you've used all of your gifts this month. Your counter will reset on the first day of next month.
Share this article paywall-free
During Hurricane Helene, the Burke County 911 dispatch system was overwhelmed with phone calls. At one point, the statewide emergency dispatch towers — Voice Interoperability Plan for Emergency Responders (VIPER) — were impacted by the storm.
Without the usual communication system in place, responders and fire departments were left to coordinate their responses as best they could.
Salem Fire and Rescue Chief Charles Autrey and his team know this all too well.
When Autrey left Burke County for a family vacation before the storm, he had no indication that the storm would be as bad as it was. He returned home to learn that was not the case.
Before Helene’s arrival, local firefighters had prepared well for the hurricane, Autrey said. Local departments worked with Burke County Emergency Management. Personnel were assigned specific radio groups and communication channels were established.
As firefighters responded to the storm, they had falling trees around them. Getting to the people in need required responders to cut down trees and cut even more to get back the way they came.
“It was pretty bad,” Autrey simply stated.
DAYS FOLLOWING
The chief estimates that his department responded to 40 to 50 calls during the height of the storm. Normally, responders create computerized incident reports. But they had no internet — and still don’t. The only option is to create the reports by hand.
“The firefighter department has done a very good job … We have been staying busy around the clock,” he said.
Their calls centered on flooding, electric lines down, and trees falling on vehicles/homes. The department also has responded to numerous motor vehicle accidents and a structure fire.
Things have slowed down since the storm, but normal calls like medical emergencies still happen regardless of the natural disaster.
Although the impacts on Burke County were not as bad as the western North Carolina mountains, Autrey advised the public to “stay weather aware and heed warnings.” Many of the disasters in the mountains happened due to residents not evacuating and not following warnings.
COMMUNITY RESPONSE
The county has established Points of Distribution where people can find nonperishable food, water, and other. More information can be found in our lead story on 1A.
“I want to thank the public for their support for emergency services and their donations,” Autrey said. “It says a lot of the community in Burke County.”
See more donation opportunities in The Paper’s Around Burke section on 1A.
Saydie Bean may be reached at 828-445-8595, ext. 2011, or saydie@thepaper.media .
Your notification has been saved.
There was a problem saving your notification.
{{description}}
Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.
Save
Post a comment as anonymous
anonymous
Report
Cancel
Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion.
Watch this discussion
Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion
Notifications from this discussion will be disabled.
Cancel
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
Commented
Get the Stories that Matter First
Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup.
Error! There was an error processing your request.
Breaking News
We'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as they happen!
Local Obituaries
Here are the most recent obituaries. Thank you for subscribing to The Paper.
Local Offers
Receive occasional local offers from our website and its advertisers.
Local Sports
The Editor's Picks
Every Monday the editor releases her favorite stories from the latest edition of The Paper.
The Paper e-Edition
Here is your latest digital Special Hurricane edition of The Paper .
Thank you for subscribing.
You must select at least one email list.
Please enter a valid email address.
Sign up
Browser Compatibility
Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:
User information
Username (Optional)
This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely!
* Email Address
Your email address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else.
* Password
Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address.
* Confirm Password
Breaking News
We'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as they happen!
Local Obituaries
Here are the most recent obituaries. Thank you for subscribing to The Paper.
Local Offers
Receive occasional local offers from our website and its advertisers.
Local Sports
The Editor's Picks
Every Monday the editor releases her favorite stories from the latest edition of The Paper.
The Paper e-Edition
Here is your latest digital Special Hurricane edition of The Paper .
Thank you for subscribing.
Thank you .
Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in.
Check your email for details.
Email Address
Reset Password
Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password.
Email or Screen Name
Reset Password
Forgot Password
An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account.
Back
Account Email
Recipient name
Recipient email
Purchaser name
Purchaser email
This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration.
Secure transaction. Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
You're all set!
Thank you.
Your gift purchase was successful! Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
Rate:
Begins:
Close
