February 29, 2016
Mozzarella Stuffed Garlic Monkey Bread is a savory twist on sweet monkey bread. It makes a great appetizer or side dish to eat with dinner.
Weeknights can be pretty hectic when you have a family. Sometimes you don’t have an hour or more to spend prepping dinner in the kitchen. You just want something easy to prepare that you can put in the oven to bake. That’s when convenient frozen meals like STOUFFER’S® lasagna are great to have in the freezer. The perfect side to eat with the lasagna is my easy Mozzarella Stuffed Garlic Monkey Bread.
To prepare for a busy week, I went grocery shopping at Walmart. I needed to pick up a frozen dinner option and ingredients to make my Mozzarella Stuffed Garlic Monkey Bread. I choose to gather around the goodness of STOUFFER’S® Large Family Size Lasagna with Meat & Sauce for our dinner. Ibotta is currently offering a great rebate on STOUFFER’S®. If you buy two family size or bigger 28 oz. entrees, you can earn $2.00.
STOUFFER’S® Large Family Size Lasagna with Meat & Sauce is obviously great for families with each box containing seven servings. The lasagna features freshly made pasta layered between a rich meat sauce and topped with real mozzarella. One of my favorite aspects about the meal is that there are no preservatives. It’s a great option for busy weekday nights since you just need to place it in the oven to bake.
Of course, a lasagna dinner is never complete without garlic bread. My Mozzarella Stuffed Garlic Monkey Bread is the perfect addition to the meal. It is easy to make and it only takes a short amount of time to prepare before putting it in the oven.
To make Mozzarella Stuffed Garlic Monkey Bread, you just need five ingredients: butter, garlic, Italian seasoning, refrigerated biscuits, and mozzarella cheese. First, you need to cut each biscuit into quarters and cube the mozzarella cheese. Then place a cube of cheese into each biscuit piece and form into a ball. Toss the balls into the melted butter, garlic and Italian seasoning mixture. Place the balls into a greased tube pan and bake in the oven until done. The Mozzarella Stuffed Garlic Monkey Bread will be a hit with the family. Besides being delicious, it’s also fun to eat.
If you enjoy the sweet version of monkey bread, then you need to try this savory twist. Mozzarella Stuffed Garlic Monkey Bread makes a great appetizer or side dish to eat with dinner.
Author: Sugar, Spice and Family Life
Recipe type: Appetizer
16 oz. block of mozzarella cheese, cut into 64 cubes
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 F. Grease a tube or bundt pan.
In a bowl, mix together melted butter, garlic and Italian seasoning.
Cut each biscuit into quarters. Place a cube of mozzarella cheese inside each biscuit quarter. Form into balls and toss in the butter mixture.
Arrange balls into the pan.
Bake for 45 minutes, or until done. Let stand for 10 minutes.
Remove from pan and serve warm.
3.2.2802
What family meal do you enjoy eating with garlic bread?
Share via
This post may contain affiliate links, sponsored content and/or compensated products.
Comments
Christi says
Primary Sidebar
Follow Me!
Thank you for visiting Sugar, Spice and Family Life!
If you have any questions or would like to work together, please contact me.
Stay Connected
Sugar, Spice and Family Life © 2012-2024 - All Rights Reserved
Share via
Send
Cancel
