Power Lunch Event Description
Join Shruti Gurudanti, Rose Law Group Partner and Director of Corporate Transactions, and Tiffany House, of Tax & Estate Strategy and Gift Planning Institute, for a dual-focused session on two critical business topics: the Corporate Transparency Act and Strategic Succession Planning.
Learn how to navigate the new reporting requirements under the Corporate Transparency Act, including which businesses are impacted, potential exemptions, and the essential steps for compliance. Then, dive into succession planning strategies to preserve wealth and maximize tax efficiencies as we approach the sunset of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in December 2025.
Whether you’re ensuring compliance or planning for the future, this session is packed with actionable insights for business owners and advisors alike.
This segment will guide you through the essential steps to ensure your business is compliant with the latest regulations.
Determine which types of businesses fall within the scope of these new requirements
Discover potential exemptions for your enterprise
Understand the new reporting process and the unique obligations for entities and individuals
Learn what details need to be disclosed and by when
Get a clear timeline for compliance
Featuring: Tiffany House, CAP®, CEPA, FCEP of Tax & Estate Strategy and Gift Planning Institute
Topic: Smart Succession: Maximizing Tax Efficiencies while Integrating Estate Planning
No matter where you are in your business journey, it’s crucial to plan with the future in mind. Strategic succession planning can help business owners and successful families preserve more of their hard-earned wealth. With anticipated tax law changes on the horizon, particularly the sunset of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in December 2025, proactive planning is more important than ever.
Date & Time
Location
7144 E. Stetson Dr., Suite 300,
Scottsdale, AZ 85251
About our guest speaker:
Tiffany House is a Chartered Advisor in Philanthropy, CAP®, Certified Exit Planning Advisor, CEPA, a Fellow in Charitable Estate Planning, FCEP, and a tax, estate, and charitable strategist. She works as a fiduciary consultant and operates two companies. Tax & Estate Strategy works with clients and their families to help guide them through intricate situations, including transitioning a business, planning philanthropy, values-based estate planning, and tax concerns. The Gift Planning Institute works with nonprofit organizations to enhance their donor interactions and gift planning programs.
Tiffany is a national speaker and a very active member of the community. She serves on many boards, has held leadership roles, and enjoys lifelong learning. She is passionate about educating advisors, donors, and clients about tax-advantaged strategies.
Share this!
* indicates required
Email Address *
Subscribe to the Dealmaker
Rose Law Group pc values “outrageous client service.” We pride ourselves on hyper-responsiveness to our clients’ needs and an extraordinary record of success in achieving our clients’ goals. We know we get results and our list of outstanding clients speaks to the quality of our work.
