Greek Lamb Chops
This post may contain affiliate links
Authentic Greek lamb chops are pan-fried in a cast iron skillet (or grilled) after being marinated in a traditional Greek marinade of olive oil, lemon juice, garlic, oregano and salt. Bring the flavours of Greece home with this easy recipe.
47 minutes minutes 1 Comment
If you’re looking to cook lamb chops, it’s tough to beat the traditional Greek cooking method. Delicious lamb chops hang out in the best, simple marinade (it’s similar to the marinade I use for souvlaki ) and are seared in a pan or on a grill.
Lamb chops are expensive, so if you’re looking for a more budget-friendly lamb dish, I would recommend my braised lamb ragu (using lamb shoulder chops).
Why this recipe works
It’s all about the marinade and the cut of lamb that we’re using. I like to use a small rib chops, known as ‘padakia’. I find the best lamb chops can be found at a Greek butcher. You’ll get meaty chops, often for less than you’ll pay in the grocery store.
And I’ll share a Greek cooking secret with you; always add more lemon and garlic than you typically would. That’s what gives a lot of Greek grilled meats their flavour.
Ingredient notes
Lamb rib chops are tender and come from the ribs (of course), you can have the white fat removed from the handles (also known as frenched) but I like to leave it on for extra flavour.
Olive oil is a must in most marinades, but especially in Greek recipes.
Garlic is another key ingredient. I’m using four cloves for these eight chops.
Oregano is a common dried herb used in Greek cooking, you could also sub in thyme or rosemary.
Lemon juice is part of the marinade and also gets sprinkled on at the end to finish and brighten the dish.
Expert tips
You may be worried about the garlic burning when the lamb hits the pan, but this cut of meat cook very quickly and the cooked garlic adds a lot of flavour to the finished dish.
This marinade is quite versatile, you can swap in rosemary or thyme for the oregano.
Step by step instructions
Start by whisking all of the marinade ingredients together. Then add your lamb chops, cover and marinate them for at least 30 minutes or up to six hours.
When you’re ready to cook, preheat a cast iron pan over medium high. You shouldn’t need to add any extra oil to the pan beyond the oil from the marinade, plus the fat that will come off of the chops as they cook. Sear for 2-3 minutes per side, until nicely browned on each side and they reach an internal temperature for 135F. You’ll need to cook the lamb chops in batches, wiping the pan in between.
What to serve them with
It’s a no brainer to serve these with a Horiatiki (traditional Greek salad) , and you could also serve with homemade tzatziki on the side.
Greek Lamb Chops
Author: Louisa Clements
4.43 from 19 votes
Authentic Greek lamb chops are pan-fried in a cast iron (or grilled) after being marinated in a traditional Greek marinade of olive oil, lemon juice, garlic, oregano and salt. Bring the flavours of Greece home with this easy recipe.
4 cloves garlic, minced
Instructions
In a large glass bowl, whisk olive oil with lemon juice, garlic, oregano and salt. Add lamb chops and toss to coat. Cover and marinate in the fridge for 30 minutes to 6 hours.
Pre-heat a cast iron skillet over medium-high heat. Add lamb chops, and cook for 2-3 minutes per side until browned and lamb reaches an internal temperature of 135F. Repeat with remaining lamb chops.
Notes
To grill, preheat grill over medium-high heat. Grill, for 3-4 minutes per side until the lamb reaches an internal temperature of 135F.
Did you try this recipe?Leave a comment + rating and let me know what you think!
% Daily Value*
Fat 34g52%
Calcium 38mg4%
Iron 4mg22%
* Percent Daily Values are based on a 2000 calorie diet. Nutrition information is an estimate and is provided for informational purposes only. If you have any specific dietary concerns, please consult with your healthcare practitioner.
Leave a Review
Recipe Rating
Recipe Rating
Comment *
Name *
Email *
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
Comments
June 27, 2024 at 10:11 am
This Lamb Chop recipe looks sooo delicious! Uncle Scott loves lamb so I will make them for him on his next visit!
Hi, I'm Lou!
Hi, I'm Louisa Clements & welcome to Living Lou. I've been creating simple, fresh & flavorful recipes for the modern kitchen for 14 years.
