Forgot Your Password
Please enter your email address and we will send you a link to reset your password.
Please wait ...
First name
Last name
Apartments
Investment Property
By registering for an account, you accept the Boston Pads terms of use and privacy policy .*
You agree that BostonPads, Jacob Realty, NextGen Realty, Boardwalk Properties, Douglas Paul Real Estate, landlords, and property managers may call or text you about any inquiries you submit through our services, which may involve use of automated means and prerecorded/artificial voices. You do not need to consent as a condition of creating an account on BostonPads.com, renting any property, or buying any other goods or services. Message/data rates may apply.
Register
Property Owner Portal
Log into the Property Owner Portal or learn more about renting your properties with Boston Pads
Log In
Learn more
Advertise Your Property
Log into your Ad Portal Dashboard or learn more about marketing your property with Boston Pads
Location filter
Flexible Move-In Date
24 Oyster Bay Rd., Boston, MA 02125
* Rent prices for units in luxury buildings change frequently subject to floor level, view, floor plan, and market conditions. Call for latest pricing.
Amenities & Apartment Information
Property Description
Transportation Options Mt Vernon St opp Harbor Point Blvd Bus Stop 0.3 mi (7 min away) Mt Vernon St opp Paul A. Dever School Bus Stop 0.2 mi (5 min away) Mt Vernon St @ Paul A. Dever School Bus Stop 0.2 mi (5 min away) Mt Vernon St @ South Point Dr Bus Stop 0.2 mi (4 min away) Nearby Places Corcoran Library Pantry Pizza The Boston Globe The Sugar Bowl Vietnam War Memorial
0.2mi
Grades: 7-9
State Police
Museum
0.32mi
0.29mi
Library
0.31mi
16
8
0.14mi
16
8
0.14mi
16
8
0.18mi
16
8
0.19mi
16
8
0.31mi
16
8
0.33mi
Price Comparison
This apartment is above the average price of $3,158 for 3 bedroom apartments in Dorchester . Rent prices tend to be higher for luxury apartments because of the wide range of amenities they provide. These buildings are also often conveniently located near transportation, shopping, restaurants, and green spaces. This may be your dream apartment. Contact us today before this great unit is rented!
Average Rent Prices for 3 Bedroom Apartments in Dorchester
Rent Calculator & Affordability
$59,667 - $71,600
A range of 25-30% is usually the recommended amount of household or combined gross income to spend on rent. This is also what many landlords are looking for in a prospective tenant, a group of roommates, or their cosigner(s). Remember, this is just a suggestion and does not take into account any other expenses you may have.
Rent Calculator
How much do you (or your cosigner) earn each year before taxes?
Annual Income:
High Range
SMS Alerts
Text me more listings like this!
*You agree to the Boston Pads Terms of Use & Privacy Policy . By choosing to contact a property, you also agree that BostonPads, Jacob Realty, NextGen Realty, Boardwalk Properties, Douglas Paul Real Estate, landlords, and property managers may call or text you about any inquiries you submit through our services, which may involve use of automated means and prerecorded/artificial voices. You don't need to consent as a condition of renting any property, or buying any other goods or services. Message/data rates may apply.
Hidden
Your Own Home?
Instead of paying $4,475/mo in rent, these homes may have a similar monthly mortgage.
This is an estimate based on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage at 7.242% interest, 20% down payment, $120/mo homeowners insurance, and the average property tax rate of 10.90 in the Boston area. Actual interest rates, property taxes, and homeowners insurance will vary. Does not include additional expenses or fees such as closing costs, PMI, or HOA fees. Buyers must complete their own due diligence based on current market conditions.
Dorchester Condo For Sale, Added 4 days ago, 2 Beds, 3 Baths, 1298 Square Feet - List Price $739,000
