LOCAL
More than 12,000 requests for help: Volunteers search for missing people after Helene
Asheville Citizen Times
ASHEVILLE - More than 12,000. That's how many requests for help the Register of Deeds office has received since it started the Family Assistance Center.
The office has generated a list of names submitted by people looking for missing family, friends and neighbors and is mobilizing volunteers to make welfare checks — meaning door-to-door visits in some of the county's hardest hit areas.
Register of Deeds Drew Reisinger said about two-thirds of those on the list are from Buncombe County.
The morning of Oct. 1, at the downtown office, dozens gathered outside its doors, awaiting instructions. Sirens whooped and chattered, a near constant background noise in recent days, as ambulances and police cars raced along the outer streets of the city center.
While downtown was spared much of the damage seen in other areas in the county, particularly those along the French Broad and Swannanoa rivers, the mark of Helene's hand remained: downed branches and debris, lines wrapping around blocks for water distribution or at a café still dispensing hot coffee, port-a-potties that appeared almost overnight in Pack Square Park.
Volunteer Caroline Paulsen, sitting in a folding chair outside the Register of Deeds' doors, said she had also gone out the day before, armed with a list of five names, each of someone that a friend, family or neighbor told the office they couldn't get in touch with, which, she said, often is a result of the lack of cell reception. In Buncombe County, countless roads are still blocked. Widespread power and water outages persist.
"We went to five doors and three of the people were there, in good health and doing just fine," she said. The fourth apartment was in the Swannanoa flood zone, across from Lowe's, and "nobody was there." They waded through mud to reach the door.
The final house was intact, a generator running, but no one answered. Volunteers are sent to make contact if possible and gather information. If available, they are given supplies to distribute. A list of codes is written in sharpie and posted around the office — NH (not home), OK; OKB (OK, but); and: Escalate.
Paulsen was there to help out her community, she said. "It doesn't feel important to be doing my normal job (right now)."
The county remains in active search and rescue and recovery for community members who remain trapped in homes, it said at a 10 a.m. briefing. Volunteers with the Register of Deeds knocked on more than 300 doors on Sept. 30.
'Triage' as it comes
"Work didn't need me. My home is settled. I can clean up later," said Lauren Baer, among the assembled volunteers. It was her first day volunteering to do the welfare checks. "I'm gassed up, I've got two vehicles. I've got chainsaws. I don't know what people need, so I'm just here to help."
"It's definitely emotional looking at the damage," she said. "It's awesome that we have so many people out here wanting to help and you see it on a daily basis. You see it on an hourly basis."
As she spoke, a car pulled up with supplies. Someone popped the trunk and yelled for "hands." As people rushed forward, Baer paused mid-thought to gauge if they still needed help.
"Our real goal is just trying to help people," Reisinger. "I want you to be on your game, identifying needs, report those needs back to us if you can't fill them."
Everyone's needs may look differently, he said. They are also looking for places that may need "escalation." If a house is gone, alert someone immediately so professional teams can be sent in.
"We've got to triage each situation as it comes," he said.
Need help?
The Register of Deeds has developed a web-based form to assist people in finding and connecting with residents of Buncombe County. Anyone inside or outside of Buncombe County can use this to report someone who might be missing or who cannot be reached.
The Family Assistance Form can be found at https://bit.ly/3BjnVWq . You can also call 828-820-2761.
Information will be reviewed by the Buncombe Search Team, which will create and maintain a list of people who are currently unreachable and work with Buncombe County Emergency Operations Center to find information.
