Na here everything dey! Freebet, bonuses, Boosted odds, Sweet Market options, and high-paying casino, all for you!
Register now and we will get you started with a Mega 100% Cashback of up to ₦10,000 on your first stake amount after your first deposit. Another cashback of up to ₦10,000 of your first bet amount after your second deposit. And it repeats for your third, fourth, and fifth deposit!
This means that after you sign up and accept this offer, your first five deposits have guaranteed cashback (total of ₦50,000), if your first bet after each deposit does not go your way. For example, if you deposit ₦10,000 and place a first bet of ₦5,000 if the bet loses, you will get a ₦5,000 cashback.
This offer only covers your first bet immediately after each deposit. Subsequent bets placed after the first one do not have guaranteed cashback.
If you like that, here is how you can get it:
Open a betBonanza Account and Accept this Offer
Make your Deposits
Bet on any game & receive your Cashback
That’s all! Oya quick Sign up, Na here everything dey! T& C applies
This offer is available to new betBonanza customers upon sign up.
Offer is spread, ₦10,000 each across 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th deposit.
Accepting the offer is required. You only have to Accept offer once to participate on all days of the campaign.
For a bet to qualify for this promotion, it must:
Be at least ₦500 stake or higher on sports (real money).
A minimum total odd of 3.00
Be fully settled (as lost)
Only the first bet placed after each of your first five deposits (1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th deposit) qualifies for a refund if it results in a loss.
Customers are eligible to get up to ₦50,000 in Freebet.
All betBonanza offers are intended for recreational players and betBonanza may in its sole discretion limit the eligibility of customers to participate in all or part of any promotion.
All customer offers are limited to one per person, family, IP address, household address, email address, telephone number, same payment account number (e.g. credit card, address, etc) and shared computer, e.g. workplace or internet cafe. betBonanza reserves the right to withdraw the availability of any offer or all offers to any customer or group of customers.
Any players, who, in the opinion of betBonanza, abuse this offer, will have their bonus forfeited, placed bets cancelled and accounts closed.
betBonanza reserves the right to amend, cancel, reclaim or refuse any promotion at its own discretion.
In addition to the above rules, betBonanza General Terms and Conditions apply.
Freebet
Freebets can be placed as single bets or Multibet.
All Freebet received must be used to bet on any game within 3 days of receiving it.
All Freebet must be used in their entirety and cannot be split into multiple stakes.
The initial stake of the Freebet will not be returned, only the winnings generated from it. For example, if a ₦500 Freebet is placed with odds of 3.0 and the bet is won, the customer’s account will be credited with only ₦1,000. That is, ₦1,500 (Winnings) - ₦500 (Freebet); a balance of ₦1,000 will be received.
The Net Winnings from a Freebet have no requirement for wagering.
©betBonanza (2019). All rights reserved. betBonanza is a registered trademark. betBonanza
is not affiliated or connected with any sports teams, event organisers or players displayed on its
website, nor with any mobile brand.
Underage gambling is forbidden
betBonanza is licensed by the Lagos State Lotteries Board, license No: 001370
betBonanza is licensed by National Lottery Regulatory Commission, permit No: 0001026
I accept
