50 Years of Confidence, Powered By GS1. One Big Idea, Infinite Possibilities. Learn More.
The Global Language of Business
Generative AI Revisited
Since the first demo of ChatGPT hit the spotlight in late 2022, the hype around generative AI has been sky high. After the initial frenzy of AI-written haikus, reality began to set in. Hallucinations, data privacy concerns, and copyright lawsuits are real risks of using generative AI without careful consideration. Meanwhile, companies are trying to improve the quality of output by enabling the generative AI to access relevant documents and data sources. This method is called retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) and helps guide the AI’s results. Generative AI is not a cure-all, but it excels in certain areas. Companies see both the benefits and drawbacks. Many are now asking: How can generative AI actually help my business?
Related Topics
Content Creation and Communication
One of the core functions of generative AI is to create content. Through probability and extrapolation, it uses large language models (LLMs) to understand and generate text, images, sounds, and even video. These models work quickly and at scale. As a result, generative AI can help create content for product descriptions and listings, marketing and media, website design, or e-commerce stores.
According to an article in CIO Dive , Procter & Gamble developed an internal generative AI tool that aids their marketing team in the creation of photorealistic images and other assets. The enhancement to the content creation process frees up their employees to focus more on strategic planning and the customer experience.  These images can then be used as part of the company’s online product listings.
For e-commerce, Retail Dive reports that both Amazon and eBay use generative AI to help their sellers generate product descriptions. The AI take in a piece of information, such as a product’s image or key words provided by the seller, and use that data as a seed from which to create a longer, more detailed product description. From there, the seller can review, edit, and update the content, making the product listing process more efficient.
Content generated by AI needs to be reviewed for its authenticity. GS1 US Data Hub® can be used to search and verify product data. In theory, this capability could be expanded to aid human reviewers so that they can work to confirm the accuracy of the information AI generated into a product description or listing. In addition, the Global Product Classification (GPC) can be used to help determine a product’s category for compliance. This can help ensure products have the appropriate certifications and disclaimers incorporated into their listings. A ground source of truth can mitigate the risk of AI hallucinations and make it easier to identify and correct content errors when they occur.
Chatbots, Personalization, and the Customer Experience
Chat interface is another major aspect of generative AI. It uses the natural language processing (NLP) capabilities of LLMs to have text conversations with customers. AI can learn and adapt to customer habits, which makes for a dynamic experience. The chatbots can react to a customer’s interaction history to provide hyper-personalized insights and recommendations.
Etsy has launched an AI chatbot that recommends products and streamlines gift shopping, according to TechCrunch . The e-commerce platform’s boost in personalization provides new ideas beyond a traditional keyword search and makes it easier for users to find great gifts.
Nestlé used the scale and speed of generative AI, as revealed by The Drum , to aid alignment in its marketing organization. The AI accessed thousands of historical campaigns to find patterns in the methods that worked best and how to use them with new content. AI offered Nestlé-specific best practices that streamlined their marketing process.
GS1 Standards provide a common framework of reference for models to help understand products by their category and related products. The GPC is an identifier that groups products based on essential properties and their relationships to other products. AI could use these relationships to improve recommendations to customers.
Believe the AI Hype: Exploring the Realities and Opportunities of AI in Supply Chain
Join us for free at the virtual GS1 US Innovation Summit where we will debunk myths, showcase real-world applications, and offer valuable insights to empower businesses of all sizes to embrace AI-driven solutions with confidence.
Data Insights for Inventory Management
Generative AI can use a communication interface to share valuable information across the whole organization, so it doesn’t require specialized knowledge or skills to understand. As a result, decision-makers at all levels can access key information about inventory, demand forecasting, and logistics. This should help them to respond more quickly and make well-informed supply chain decisions.
Another article from CIO Dive noted that The Home Depot has developed an AI application called Sidekick. It gives store associates access to AI insights to help them manage inventory. It uses computer vision systems to see real-time stock levels in the store and provide informed suggestions.
Walmart rolled out an AI application that can help manage inventory by analyzing structured and unstructured data from a variety of sources, according to a report from the Wall Street Journal . For example, it can examine weather patterns and social media trends to better inform inventory decisions. These insights about large-scale unstructured data enhance traditional predictive AI forecasting.
Insights are built on data. GS1 US offers a Data Hub View/Use subscription that allows users to query and view large amounts of product data that may be used for AI insights. GS1 Standards and data can help provide the building blocks for comprehensive AI operations spanning an industry’s supply chain.
Digital Simulation to Empower Resilience and Fulfillment
Digital twins are virtual recreations of a real-world environment. They can be used for simulations, studies, and predictive analytics. Generative AI enhances digital twins by producing synthetic data to increase the scope beyond current limitations. Generative and predictive AI work together in a digital twin to simulate and respond to supply chain disruptions or sudden changes in demand.
A recent article from AutomationWorld states that Mars collaborated with Accenture to create digital twins of their products and factory spaces. They wanted to see how adjustments to either would unfold before committing to making changes in the physical space. The digital twin simulation helped them identify bottlenecks and quality issues. They also learned how they could respond proactively to unexpected disruptions or shifts in demand.
UPS is in the process of creating a digital twin of its logistics network, as highlighted in Supply Chain Dive . Their goal is to track packages more accurately and update routes based on real-time updates. They are looking to coordinate many signals into a single cohesive vision of the route. To do so, the digital twin would be built with a combination of Internet of Things (IoT) sensors and AI. This would also aid in optimization and route planning.
The creation of an expansive digital twin ecosystem is not a singular effort. Companies want to gain maximum benefit from large-scale AI simulation. To do so, they would need to interoperably share data with their trading partners. Electronic data interchange (EDI) 1 standards form the core of that interoperable exchange of data. In addition, the digitization of key events within a supply chain can be achieved through electronic product code information services (EPCIS) events to share visibility data and build a truly transparent digital twin.
Design and Discovery for Sustainability
Achieving sustainability is complex and needs coordination across a business. A strategy could include factors like optimizing packaging, reducing waste, and tracking Scope 3 emissions. Generative AI can bring this key sustainability data together in one place. It can access and combine diverse information from a company’s various departments and trading partners. Then, generative AI can act as a thought partner. It can quickly offer sustainability insights at scale to help companies achieve their environmental, social, and governance (ESG) goals.
A report from Sustainability Magazine highlights how Amazon is using AI to help achieve its sustainability goals. These AI functions help with packaging design to reduce size and include more sustainable materials. They monitor damaged items or food to reduce waste. They also improve apparel fits to reduce returns and aid in tracking the carbon footprints of products.
Accenture, as discussed in the article from AutomationWorld cited above, has used AI to help a client with their global decarbonization efforts. A generative AI solution was developed that could crawl through suppliers’ websites to aggregate information. Then, it could quickly determine which suppliers had the science-based targets (SBTs) necessary for tracking decarbonization. Accessing this type of supplier information could help companies with Scope 3 emissions compliance—found, summarized, analyzed, and delivered by AI.
Design and discovery through AI is only as good as the truth and authenticity of the data. GS1 US has worked with verifiable credentials for trading partners across the supply chain to help ensure the truth of sustainability certifications and other claims. GS1 US supports sustainability with standards and identifiers, which can work with generative AI to help companies meet their ESG goals.
Generative AI on the Horizon
Generative AI’s potential is deeper than the use cases above. AI will continue to evolve as more powerful chips are developed, more users interact with the technology, and scientific advances occur, such as the advent of quantum computing. Companies looking to stay at the cutting edge of AI and supply chain will want to understand their vision of the AI future and proactively determine the role that AI plays in their organization, today and tomorrow.
To that end, there are several ways generative AI may evolve or be relevant to a supply chain organization in the future.
Generative AI as a Thought Partner
In this scenario, AI is meant solely to augment the human employee and largely take a back seat to their work. The AI is meant to provide insights, recommendations, and ideas that all are ultimately vetted and reviewed by the human employee before anything is deployed.
Generative AI as a Digital Assistant
Here, trust in the AI is greater. The role of the AI is that of a dedicated digital assistant that can take on small-scale tasks, like calendar scheduling or taking meeting notes, where the AI and its results have a measure of autonomy.
Generative AI as a Synthetic Coworker
For the most robust AI solutions, there is a potential for large levels of autonomy and trust to be given to the algorithm. In this scenario, there would be little human oversight of the AI as it is given tasks of greater importance and can be relied on to carry them out consistently.
Conclusion
Generative AI hype continues. But now, companies are cutting through the noise with solutions for a growing number of use cases. AI now has a number of compelling use cases:
Communication and content creation on the customer side
Data insights and digital twins for inventory management
Collaborative design for sustainability
How much AI and automation are embedded into a supply chain organization will change over time, but companies can lay the groundwork now. GS1 US® and GS1 Standards offer a foundation of trusted guidelines for data quality and interoperable sharing that can contribute to a set of emerging best practices. Collaboration can help AI application across an organization and span gaps between trading partners to maximize the benefits for all involved.
Interested in Generative AI in the Supply Chain?
Whether you're looking for more information, want to exchange ideas with peer thought leaders, or are interested in piloting how GS1 Standards can help you apply generative AI, we want to hear from you.
Recommended Articles
Overview of Generative AI in the Supply Chain
Read a quick refresher about what Generative AI is, how it works, and some of its limitations and risks.
Manage and Share Data in One Secure Platform
Create UPC barcodes and manage your data, or search and verify trading partner information.
Discover how automating retail processes can help power omni-channel fulfillment and reduce friction for your customers.
© 2024 GS1 US All Rights Reserved.
This content may not be copied, reproduced, printed, distributed, or published, electronically or physically, in whole or in part, in any and all media, without the express consent of the owner. The use of all GS1 Standards is voluntary and not mandatory. GS1 US is making this information available to be used for educational purposes only. The views, information, or opinions expressed regarding Generative AI do not necessarily represent those of GS1 US, its employees, or member companies. This publication has been provided as a convenience and does not constitute or imply an endorsement, recommendation, or favoring of Generative AI or any of the identified companies, products, or services by GS1 US. GS1 US does not warrant nor guarantee any of the products or services identified herein or the reliability or accuracy of content generated using Generative AI, nor does it assume any legal liability or responsibility regarding the same. Prior to the creation and distribution of content generated using Generative AI, it is recommended that you seek legal counsel to assess the compliance of said content with all applicable laws and regulations regarding intellectual property, data privacy, and/or other rights held by third parties.
1All references to ASN or EDI 856 refer to X12’s Supply Chain Transaction Standards. For more information refer to x12.org/products/transaction-sets
© 2024 GS1 US. All Rights Reserved
