Annually, scientists worldwide meet to explore new ideas, exchange research findings, and immerse themselves in their field. Attend to present research, network, participate in sessions, and join the global neuroscience community at the SFN annual meeting.
Type
Conference
Date
Location
October 5-9, Chicago IL
Annually, scientists worldwide meet to explore new ideas, exchange research findings, and immerse themselves in their field. Attend to present research, network, participate in sessions, and join the global neuroscience community at the SFN annual meeting.
Find SPARC at Booth #1764.
Want to attend for FREE? Become a SPARC Ambassador.
Who is a SPARC Ambassador?
A passionate advocate for open and accessible neuroscience research.
Someone who enjoys interacting with others and sharing their knowledge.
A valuable member of the SPARC community at SfN.
Important information:
FCFS: These opportunities are first-come, first-served!
Limited Spots: We have a limited number of ambassador roles available.
Two-Hour Commitment: All we ask is a two-hour commitment during the meeting.
Spread the Word: Engage with attendees and let them know about the exciting work SPARC is doing.
Benefits:
Network with like-minded individuals.
Receive a FREE badge for the event. Your registration fee will be covered by SPARC.
Interested? Email SPARC today ( info@SPARC.science ) and join us in making SfN 2024 a memorable event!
Add these presentations to your Itinerary
Saturday, October 6, 2024
1:00 PM - 5:00 PM:
PSTR036.18 - (SPARC Funded) Curating collaborative knowledge: SPARC.science an NIH approved multi-consortia data repository in neuroscience and systems physiology
Authors: A. Pilko, T. Gillespie, B. Patel, S. Tappan, M. Pela, J. K. Boline, J. S. Grethe, J. B. Wagenaar, A. Bandrowski, M. E. Martone
Monday, October 7, 2024
1:00 PM - 5:00 PM
PSTR205.01 - (SPARC Funded) Intraoperative heart rate and laryngeal muscle responses across vagus nerve stimulation parameters
Authors: A. Shoffstall, N. A. Pelot, N. B. Nuzov, J. Zhang, E. Cintron, J. Coleman, A. Upadhye, L. Lunasco, B. Brunsman, K. Workman, C. Kolluru, J. Seckler, N. Joseph, J. Chin, Y. Kim, M. Settell, K. Turk, A. Santos, K. Ludwig, D. Herzka, G. Sali, C. Flask, A. Blitz, A. Shunmugavel, D. Wilson, M. W. Jenkins, W. M. Grill, A. Crofton
Find more presentations to see here .
Presenting Research at Neuroscience 2024?
If your peripheral nervous system abstract is accepted by SfN, let us know! We would love to see it. Send to info@SPARC.science !
Access the SPARC presentation guide for logos, citation help & more
This website uses cookies to ensure that you get the best experience.
To learn more, please refer to the Privacy Policy. By closing this banner or clicking accept, you agree to the use of cookies.
