sunday, november 17th, 2024
what is armory camp?
Our semi-annual camp connects high school track & field athletes with professional athletes & coaches. A day-long session features some of the finest athletes and best coaching minds in the sport. The day is split into two sessions: morning and afternoon. Participants can sign up for one session, or both. This double-session option allows them to register for more than one speciality (i.e., hurdles and throws) and work with multiple coaches if desired. The event takes place at the historic Armory in New York City, home to the Nike Track & Field Center — a.k.a. “The Fastest Track in the World", just one floor above the National Track & Field Hall of Fame.
Armory Camp will return on Sunday, November 17th. We hope to see you there!
Thanks to our friends at Mondo Cares, 100 PSAL student-athletes are eligible to receive a 50 percent discount on their registration. For more information about this offer, please contact armorycamp@armorytrack.org
The AM Sprint session is now sold out. Space is still available in the afternoon!
fall 2024 coaches
More coaches will be announced as they are confirmed! Check out the Past Coaches tab for more information.
ARIES MERRITT (HURDLES)
Aries is the world record holder in the 110m hurdles with his time of 12.80 seconds set in 2012. Earlier that year, he won the gold medal in that event at the London Olympics. Aries is the first hurdler ever to win the US Indoor Championships, World Indoor Championships, US Olympic Trials, and Olympics all in the same year. He was also a World Junior Champion and a two-time NCAA Champion at the University of Tennessee.
QUINCY WILSON (SPRINTS)
Quincy is the under-18 world record holder in the 400m with his time of 44.20. He became the youngest male Olympian in US track and field history, winning a gold medal as part of the 4x400m relay. Still just a high school junior, Quincy is one of the most impressive youth phenoms in the history of the sport, and he is no stranger to The Armory, winning the 600m at this year's Millrose Games.
KATELYN TUOHY (MID/DISTANCE)
Katelyn is perhaps the most accomplished high school cross country runner of all-time, winning three straight national championships and shattering countless course records. She competed collegiately at North Carolina State and continued to dominate, winning four NCAA titles during her career. Katelyn is wrapping up her first season as a professional runner, competing at the Olympic Trials in the 5000m this past June.
SHELBY MCEWEN (HIGH JUMP)
Shelby is a two-time Olympian and the 2024 Olympic silver medalist in the high jump, jumping a lifetime best of 2.36 meters to get on the podium. He also earned silver at this year’s World Indoor Championships. Shelby won the 2019 NCAA indoor championship while at the University of Alabama.
KYREE KING (SPRINTS)
Kyree is a multiple-time finalist at the US Championships in both the 100m and 200m, breaking the sub-10 and sub-20 second barriers in each event. He competed at the Paris Olympics as part of the 4x100m relay, and he won a gold medal in the same event at the 2024 World Relays.
RAVEN SAUNDERS (THROWS)
Raven is a three-time Olympian in the shot put, winning the silver medal in Tokyo. They were a four-time NCAA champion, winning two titles at Southern Illinois, before winning two more at Ole Miss. Raven is known for competing in a mask, and for their ‘Hulk’ alter-ego.
SALIF MANE (LONG JUMP/TRIPLE JUMP)
Salif placed sixth in the triple jump final at the Paris Olympics, after winning both the Olympic Trials and NCAA Championships earlier this year. A Bronx native, Salif grew up competing at The Armory, and he is a graduate of the Armory College Prep program, before going on to attend Farleigh Dickinson University.
PRISCILLA FREDERICK (HIGH JUMP)
Priscilla is the national record holder for Antigua & Barbuda in the high jump. She is a 2016 Olympian, and she also earned silver at the 2015 Pan American Games. She was a two-time All-American while at St. John's University.
MILES LEWIS (SPRINTS)
Miles is a sprinter who competes internationally for Puerto Rico, and he is a USATF-certified coach as well. He holds the national record in the 60m, and he has competed at the World Indoor Championships. In 2023, Miles placed in the top four at both the Millrose Games and the New Balance Grand Prix.
LEAH ANDERSON (SPRINTS)
Leah is the Jamaican national record holder in the 500m. She ran on Jamaica’s 4x400m relay at both the World Indoor Championships and the World Relays, helping her country qualify for the Olympics on the second occasion. Leah placed third in the 300m at this year’s Millrose Games.
EMILY RICHARDS (MID/DISTANCE)
Emily was a standout runner at Ohio Northern University, setting the Division 3 NCAA record in the 800m and winning nine national titles. She has since qualified twice for the Olympic Trials, and nine times for the US Championships.
DOMINIC ZANOT (SPRINTS/TECHNICAL DIRECTOR)
As a Track & Field coach in Westchester County since 2005, Dominic has led teams to multiple league, county, and sectional championships. In addition, he has helped to send athletes in the sprints, jumps and hurdles to the ACC, Ivy League and America East Conference, among others. Through his professional training organization, Athletics Westchester, Dominic has also coached athletes who qualified to wear the Team USA and Team Italy uniforms at international competitions including the World and Junior World championships.
RICHARD O’RILEY (LONG JUMP/TRIPLE JUMP)
Richard is a USATF level 3 coach and has worked at the high school and collegiate levels since 2002. He is the founder of NY Metro Elite AC, privately training sprinters, hurdlers, and jumpers throughout the northeast region. He has guided multiple All-Americans and state champions such as Madison Williams — a top-10 nationally ranked triple jumper in 2024. Richard serves on the Board of Directors of 12th Rock Sports Center in Middletown, NY.
SELWYN MAXWELL, JR. (HURDLES)
Selwyn is an assistant coach at the University of Connecticut. Prior to UConn, he coached at Amherst and MIT, helping lead the latter program to four conference and five regional championships. Selwyn was a standout hurdler himself at UConn, earning All-Big East honors, and qualifying for the NCAA East Regional in the 110m Hurdles on four occasions.
LEXIA ROBINSON (THROWS)
Lexia is the Throws coach at St. John’s University, after previously coaching at Farleigh Dickinson, Sacred Heart, and Manhattan College. While at Sacred Heart, she coached seven conference champions and guided three different throwers to Northeast Conference Athlete of the Year Honors. As an athlete, Lexia qualified for the Jamaican National Championships while competing for Western Kentucky University.
TIM ST. LAWRENCE (POLE VAULT)
Tim is the founder of the acclaimed Hudson Valley Flying Circus Pole Vault Academy. He is one the top pole vault coaches in the country, guiding many athletes who have cleared over 16 feet. Tim is a member of The Armory’s Coaches Hall of Fame, and he is the namesake for the popular Coach Saint Invitational each December.
STEPHANIE DUFFY (POLE VAULT)
Stephanie coaches at the Flying Circus Academy following a highly decorated vaulting career of her own. She won three New York state titles in high school, before becoming the Big East champion while at the University of South Florida.
BOB SORENSEN (POLE VAULT)
Bob comes from a long family line of pole vaulters, and he has coached at the Flying Circus Academy for a decade. He teaches vault technique and safety, with a positive coaching style focused on progressive drills. Bob is an EMS-certified leader, and he helped coach his son Dane to an NCAA All-American finish.
Armory Updates
Sign up with your email address to receive Armory Track & Armory Foundation newsletters.
Email Address
Sign Up
Thank you!
