Where Your Journey to Relief Begins.
At True Wellness, we understand that chronic pain is more than just an annoyance; it’s a barrier on your path to a fulfilling life. For nearly three decades, Mike Santana has dedicated his life to not just alleviating pain, but transforming lives. Don’t chase the symptoms; find solutions. Begin your journey to wellness today.
3
ElectronsPlus+
ElectronsPlus +
ElectronsPlus+ is a treatment modality based on PEMF (Pulsed Electromagnetic Field) therapy. Electrons are transmitted into the body via human touch in order to recharge weak and non-functioning muscles.
Deep Myofascial Cupping
Deep Myofascial Cupping is a technique that uses larger, more powerful custom shaped cups that better fit the contours of your body. This technique finds every bit of scar-tissue and adhesions that are causing your chronic pain.
Unlock Your Body’s Potential to Heal Itself. Explore a Path to Well-being
Start Your Wellness Journey Today
Next Level Healing Methods
Our Commitment to Your Well-being
Our services are custom crafted to fit your individual needs. We blend time-tested traditional methods such as intuitive massage and corrective bodywork and the profound Deep Myofascial Cupping with modern technology like the ground breaking ElectronsPlus, a hand guided PEMF system. Each Modality helps direct your body to heal itself.
A Personalized
Journey to Recovery
Our services are crafted with you in mind, blending the latest in therapeutic technology with time-tested traditional methods to provide you with a unique healing experience. From the groundbreaking Electrons Plus to the profound Myofascial Cupping, each treatment modality opens a door to a better quality of life.
True Wellness Therapies
3
Find Lasting Recovery
Begin your journey towards a healthier, more fulfilled life by reaching out to True Wellness Therapies today. The Journey to Healing Begins Here.
Testimonials from Satisfied Customers
Thank you for all your time and effort in restoring my shoulder. I’m amazed at how much mobility I regain each time you work on it. I’ll keep stretching! I’m so grateful for your professionalism!
Patty
Just wanted to thank Mike for the session the other day, I feel amazing! I love the innovative work you’re doing. I’m going to try to get some of my family members to come see you.
Michael
Just got home! Honestly, my body feels great and I’m excited to see how I feel tomorrow.
Thanks again and see you next sesion
Taylor
Just wanted to let you know how much you’ve already improved my life with just one session. My energy levels are back. I can think more clearly. The quality of my life has improved…. I’m very grateful.
Claudia
I’m feeling pretty good. It seems like my back is less ‘at risk’ of getting reinjured, which is really nice. I can now feel myself using those hip and quad muscles much more. I’ll definitely want to come back for another session
Jhon
My back feels really good, even went to the mall for two hours walking around and felt really good! Thanks again! It was a pleasure meeting Mike and I hope we meet at the next session.
Kyle
Blog
Mar 26, 2024
The Truth About Foam Rolling: Debunking Myths and Maximizing Benefits Foam rollers have become a ubiquitous fitness tool, touted for their magical muscle-melting powers. But is all this rolling truly necessary? Let's delve into the science behind foam rolling and...
Mar 20, 2024
Imagine your body is an amusement park. You've got the bone coasters (your skeleton), the muscle mountains (your muscles), and the squishy fun houses (your organs). But how do all these rides connect? Enter the Fascia Freak Show! Fascia is a dense web of connective...
Mar 12, 2024
Imagine a superhighway inside your body that connects your brain to your most important organs! That's basically the vagus nerve, also known as the pneumogastric nerve (fancy science name!). It's the longest nerve in this special system that controls things your body...
True Wellness TherapiesC/O Barnstable Court69 E. Allendale RdSaddle River, NJ. 07458
Phone: (917) 455-0559
