What should  you  ask Candidates ahead of the BC Election?
Sept. 12, 2024 – A question guide to the 2024 BC Provincial Election
BC’s Provincial election is this fall, and candidates who want your vote may come door knocking or host events where you have an opportunity to chat about what matters to you. Below are some questions to start a conversation about their position on nature conservation and safeguarding our futures:
The science-backed target of protecting 30% of lands and waters by 2030 provides a pathway to tackle the biodiversity crisis and ensure a healthy future for people and nature… What immediate actions will you take to protect more land in BC and advance 30×30?
BC currently has over 1700 species at risk but no Provincial law to protect them or their habitat. The majority of BC residents (88%) support protecting habitat for species at risk… What will you and your government do to protect species at risk and their habitat?
8 in 10 BC residents are concerned about biodiversity loss, pollution, and overfishing on BC’s coasts. These threats loom as BC’s Coastal Marine Strategy awaits implementation and resourcing… How will you ensure a healthy coast for both marine life and people?
We want to hear from you! Tell us how the conversation goes and if you or the candidates would like further information: info@cpawsbc.org
Speak up for nature & join us at a Candidates Debate near you!
Our Nature & Climate debates bring candidates in your riding together to discuss conservation, climate policy, and environmental issues. Hear what they have to say, ask candidates questions directly, and make your community’s concerns heard this election.
By subscribing to CPAWS-BC action and alerts, you will receive communications regarding our conservation campaigns, general CPAWS news updates, as well as contests and other promotions.
Follow Us
Authorized by CPAWS-BC registered sponsor under the Election Act, 604-685-7445
Quick Links
Unceded territory of the səl̓ílwətaʔɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh (Squamish), and xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam) Nations
info@cpawsbc.org Tel.: (604) 685-7445
