Level Up Your Data Engineering Skills & Make Data Actionable in 2024
Experience two days with data engineering’s top leaders, companies, tools and experts.
At our second annual Data Engineering Summit, we are bringing together leading experts in data engineering and data practitioners to explore different strategies for making data actionable. Whether you are a data engineer or someone who does data engineering on the side, you’ll find new tools and techniques you can apply to your work immediately.
DATA ENGINEERING
Master the latest topics in data engineering and data infrastructure, and learn the top frameworks and tools from experts speakers
MACHINE LEARNING
Grasp how data pipelines can automate data processing to help efficiently and effectively analyze, and transform large amounts of data
CLOUD DATA SERVICES
Learn the development, deployment, and management of data infrastructure and services on the  cloud
BIG DATA SERVICES
Master the activities and processes related to organizing, storing, and accessing data including unstructured data, data warehouses and lakes
DATA PIPELINES & INTEGRATION
Understand how to integrate data from different sources and give your company an accurate and comprehensive data view with data engineering
MONITORING & MANAGMENT
Continuous monitoring and management of data pipelines and system performance are essential for reliability. Understand the tools and frameworks at this data engineering conference.
DATA QUALITY & GOVERNANCE
Understand how to implement data quality to ensure the accuracy, reliability, and effectiveness of the information being used
DATA EXPLORATION
Discover tools for data exploration and visualization that aid in gaining insights from data from a wide range of platforms at this data engineering conference
Our Confirmed Speaker Lineup
Dr. Einat Orr
Co-Founder & CEO @ Treeverse
Leveraging 20+ years of experience to revolutionize data lakes with lakeFS, improving data management.
Jean-Georges Perrin
AbeaData @ CIO
Author of multiple books, including Implementing Data Mesh (O’Reilly) and Spark in Action.
Ryan Day
Advanced Data Scientist @ Conference of State Bank Supervisors
Leading Cloud Architect, Economics Modeler, and Author on APIs for AI and Data Science.
Jörg Schad
Head of Engineering @ Nextdata
Expert in decentralized data systems and AI infrastructure and former CTO at ArangoDB
Jay Sen
Expert in data engineering and platform optimization at PayPal, recognized thought leader, advisor, and investor in data technologies
Brij Kishore Pandey
Principal Engineer @ ADP
AI Strategist and Principal Engineer with 15+ years in AI, data engineering, and cloud solutions; expertise in LLM integration and operational efficiency
Ryan Boyd
Co-founder @ MotherDuck
Mark Freeman
Data quality advocate with turning complex data challenges into actionable solutions; co-author of an upcoming O'Reilly book on Data Contracts
Kaxil Naik
Apache Airflow PMC Member & Committer | Director of Airflow Engineering @ Astronomer
Data orchestration innovator and Apache Airflow advocate driving global collaboration.
Danica Fine
Yixin Tang
ML & data systems expert with 10+ years building customer-facing products (experimentation leader).
Dustin Dorsey
Founder of the Nashville Data Engineering group and DataTune Nashville. Co-author of “Pro Database Migration to Azure” and “Unlocking dbt”.
Ines Chami
Developing innovative methods to represent intricate relationships within graph data using embedding models.
Jun He
Leading development of Netflix's Maestro for data/ML workflows; previously built distributed systems at Airbnb
Stay Tuned!
Vipul Bharat Marlecha
Expert in data pipelines, data lakes, and cutting-edge practices.
Andrew Lamb
Staff Software Engineer @ InfluxData
Chair of the Apache Arrow PMC. Actively contributes to open-source projects like Rust & DataFusion.
Yixin Tang
ML & data systems expert with 10+ years building customer-facing products (experimentation leader).
Ryan Blue
Co-founder and CEO @ Tabular
Co-creator of Apache Iceberg, ASF member and a committer in the Apache Parquet, Avro, and Spark communities.
Jonas Mueller
Contributed to the fastest-growing open-source libraries for AutoML and Data-Centric AI.
Ethan Hamilton
Jean-Georges Perrin
AbeaData | CIO
Author of multiple books, including Implementing Data Mesh (O’Reilly) and Spark in Action, 2nd edition .
Elliott Cordo
Founder, Architect, Builder @ Datafutures
Expert in cloud-native data platforms on AWS, ranging from data warehouses and data lakes, to real-time activation platforms.
Ines Chami
Developing innovative methods to represent intricate relationships within graph data using embedding models.
Ryan Boyd
Co-founder @ MotherDuck
Eric Callahan
Principal, Data Solutions @ Pickaxe Foundry
Seasoned Data and Analytics Leader Unlocking the Full Value of Data in Organizations
Christina Taylor
Open-source enthusiast building scalable data pipelines for advanced analytics, ML, and products.
Alex Gorelik
Distinguished Engineer @ LinkedIn
A HItachi Fellow and IBM Distinguished Engineer. Expertise in enabling business value through data.
James Bowkett
Technical Delivery Director @ OpenCredo
Firm advocate of XP practices such as TDD and BDD. Data conference speaker.
Dustin Dorsey
Founder of the Nashville Data Engineering group and DataTune Nashville. Co-author of “Pro Database Migration to Azure” and “Unlocking dbt”.
Anindita Mahapatra
Staff Data Engineer @ Breezeway
Organized of the Nashville Data Engineering Group meetup and Datatune Nashville. Aothor of the book Unlocking dbt.
James Serra
Data & AI architect @ Microsoft
Author of the book “Deciphering Data Architectures: Choosing Between a Modern Data Warehouse, Data Fabric, Data Lakehouse, and Data Mesh”
Gokul Prabagaren
Author of the paper “Systematic Approach for validating Java-MongoDB Sche-ma”
Jay Mishra
Chief Operating Office @ Astera
Data architect with 20+ years of experience in solution design, development, and leadership.
Ori Nakar
Threat Research leader: security researcher, data engineer & scientist.
Bill Palombi
VP of Product @ Prefect.io
Data leader, brings nearly 10 years of experience building and using workflow orchestration systems.
Johnathan Azaria
Data Science Tech Lead @ Imperva
Data Science Tech Lead, focusing on AI for security and digital protection.
Jeff Hale
Author of introductory books on Python, SQL, Pandas, and Docker.
Jeff Curran
Stephen Bailey, PhD
Engineer Manager @ Whatnot
Jai Balani
Ethan Peck
Director, Data Engineering @ Zoominfo
Thought leader in DataOps and an expert in enterprise data architecture.
Ciro Greco
Data & analytics leader, builds & leads high-performing, global teams at startups.
Alex Gorelik - Distinguished Engineer | LinkedIn
Data Engineering in the Age of Data Regulations
Anindita Mahapatra - Solutions Architect | Databricks
Data Engineering in the era of Gen AI
Ryan Boyd - Co-founder | MotherDuck
Data Infrastructure through the Lens of Scale, Performance and Usability
Elliott Cordo - Founder, Architect, Builder | Datafutures
Data Pipeline Architecture – Stop Building Monoliths
Barr Moses Co-Founder & CEO Monte Carlo
Is Gen AI A Data Engineering or Software Engineering Problem?
Jean-Georges Perrin - AbeaData | CIO
Yixin Tang - Engineer Manager | DoorDash
Experimentation Platform at DoorDash
Ines Chami - Co-founder and Chief Scientist | NUMBERS STATION AI
From Research to the Enterprise: Leveraging Foundation Models for Enhanced ETL, Analytics, and Deployment
ODSC Solution Showcase Talks
Sign up to receive exclusive offers on Data Engineering Passes and the latest updates on speakers, sessions, and more.
Hosted By:
Free Data Centric Courses
Take these live, virtual courses stand-alone or as part of the Data Engineering Summit series. This foundation series is designed to equip you with the skills and knowledge that will prepare you for more advanced data engineering tools and techniques.
Hosted on Ai+ Training and included FREE as part of your 2-Day or 3-Day Data Summit Pass. You’ll receive course enrollment up to 24 hours after purchase and reminders before live courses appear.
Level Up Your Data Game: Learn, Connect, Discover Powerful Frameworks
LEARN FROM LEADING EXPERTS
Gain insights from leading practitioners.
Sharpen your skills under the guidance of industry leaders – data engineering pioneers and renowned experts will share their cutting-edge strategies and real-world best practices. Get ready to future-proof your skillset and dominate the data landscape in 2024 and beyond.
NETWORK WITH YOUR PEERS
Network with a vibrant community of fellow data engineers and data professionals. Forge valuable connections that can lead to mentorship opportunities, collaboration, and career advancement. Share your experiences, learn from others, and build a network that will support your data journey.
GET HANDS-ON WITH POWERFUL FRAMEWORKS
Dive deep into interactive workshops and hands-on labs featuring the most powerful platforms and latest tools. Master Apache Airflow, Prefect, AWS Lambda, Snowflake, and more. Build real-world solutions and gain the practical experience to tackle any data challenge thrown your way.
Discover What’s Next in Data Engineering
At our second annual Data Engineering Summit, Ai+ and ODSC are partnering to bring together the leading experts in data engineering and thousands of practitioners to explore different strategies for making data actionable. Whether you are a data engineer or someone who does data engineering on the side, you’ll find new tools and techniques you can apply to your work immediately at this data engineering conference.
August 9, 2024
Notification of Acceptance
Data Engineering Newsletter
Stay current with the latest news and updates in data engeneering. In addition, we’ll inform you about our many upcoming Virtual and in person events in Boston, NYC, Sao Paulo, San Francisco, and London. And keep a lookout for special discount codes, only available to our newsletter subscribers!
Privacy Settings
We use cookies to enhance your experience while using our website. If you are using our Services via a browser you can restrict, block or remove cookies through your web browser settings. We also use content and scripts from third parties that may use tracking technologies. You can selectively provide your consent below to allow such third party embeds. For complete information about the cookies we use, data we collect and how we process them, please check our Privacy Policy
Youtube
Vimeo
Google Maps
Save
