Doug P. | 11:12 AM on October 05, 2024
Advertisement
AP Photo/Gene J. Puskar
Not long before then Secret Service Director Kimberly Cheatle resigned amid bipartisan pressure from members of Congress, she testified in an interview that no agents were put on the building from which Donald Trump and other rally-goers were shot in Butler, Pa. in July because the sloped roof would have made it difficult :
Advertisement
“That building in particular has a sloped roof at its highest point. And so, you know, there’s a safety factor that would be considered there that we wouldn’t want to put somebody up on a sloped roof,” she said. “And so, you know, the decision was made to secure the building, from inside.”
Fast forward nearly three months.
Today, Donald Trump is having another rally in Butler, and security appears to be much tighter, and Cheatle's "sloped roof" excuse has aged even worse.
This is the scene ahead of the rally:
Security on the sloped roof in Butler, PA pic.twitter.com/wPJKuDpAQy
Snipers in Butler, Pennsylvania 👀 pic.twitter.com/PfLztljVF0
There are also more barricades:
They’ve built a wall of shipping containers to protect Trump from the line of sight outside the perimeter pic.twitter.com/Uo8atueJ5O
President Trump will be surrounded by a bullet proof encasing to protect him from insane liberals. pic.twitter.com/jzqrTomT92
Recommended
See, it can be done!
Give that man a medal for braving the dangerous sloped roof. https://t.co/xEw3z9ovC8
So it’s not too dangerous? https://t.co/mil2bEu82j
Not this time, apparently.
Look at all the Trump supporters showing up:
Seven hours ahead of when Trump is scheduled to speak, this is the line for his rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, at the same venue where the assassination attempt in July took place pic.twitter.com/gkizBto4zm
Not a charter bus in sight. Amazing!
Join the conversation as a VIP Member
Login to Leave a Comment
Recommended
1
3
Most Popular
Copyright Twitchy.com/Salem Media. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you.
