Understand and implement an artificial neural network using NumPy.
October 2, 2024
8 minute read
The OpenBB Platform allows you to access financial data from various providers. We often use it for our investment research.
September 27, 2024
Python is one of the most popular programming languages for applied finance and machine learning. In the financial sector, a lot of data is available as time...
August 27, 2024
Time series analysis is a powerful statistical method used in many industries, such as finance, healthcare, energy, and marketing.
Ensemble methods are a powerful approach in machine learning that combines multiple models to create a more robust and accurate model.
June 16, 2024
10 minute read
A lot has happened since the initial release of ChatGPT. In the meantime, the open-source industry has developed many powerful large language models (LLMs).
June 1, 2024
6 minute read
A lot has happened in the AI field since the initial release of ChatGPT. Today, state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs) can write code and support deve...
Linear Regression is a simple statistical regression method, making it perfect for beginners in predictive analysis.
April 26, 2024
8 minute read
Have you ever watched the ups and downs of the stock market and wondered how you can predict the next move? Bollinger Bands, a tool to visualize volatility, ...
March 28, 2024
6 minute read
In the fast-paced world of stock trading, analyzing time series data is crucial for making informed decisions. With the help of advanced tools like Pandas, a...
February 29, 2024
In the financial sector, we often deal with time series data that have a DateTimeIndex on a specific time scale, like every day or every hour.
February 15, 2024
Time series are everywhere in the financial sector! When processing time series, there are so many points to consider.
February 2, 2024
5 minute read
The year 2023 was the year of Large Language Models (LLMs)! No one has any doubt about that. Everyone was discussing the immense potential of generative AI, ...
January 10, 2024
6 minute read
In this article, we’ll explore the process of determining the statistically optimal allocation of your investments.
December 31, 2023
5 minute read
A year filled with AI innovations has come to an end, and it’s time to reflect. First of all, we would like to thank all our readers. Many thanks for your su...
December 15, 2023
6 minute read
Python is one of the most widely used programming languages in the data science field. Its popularity just keeps on growing! The data science field itself ha...
Machine learning (ML) has great potential for improving processes and products. A challenge is to explain the predictions of the ML algorithms. Trust and tra...
Set up a Docker-based SFTP server. It’s open-source and secure!
November 17, 2023
Do you need a secure server? In this article, you will learn how to set up an SFTP server with Docker.
November 13, 2023
Do you know how to build an LLM application in a responsible way? No, then you should check out this article. We will cover some peculiarities we have learne...
November 6, 2023
This article describes an example project in the context of stock trading. Can we predict with an AI model whether a stock goes up or down the next day? It i...
October 30, 2023
October 26, 2023
Search is everywhere! We all use search engines like Google, Bing, or You.com every day.
October 18, 2023
Do you know this? You want to learn something new, but you don’t know where to start. This is how we felt when we wanted to understand distributions mathemat...
October 17, 2023
Do you want to deploy your Plotly Dash App? Yeah, then this article is for you.
October 16, 2023
Everyone has been talking about Prompt Engineering! But it has several limitations! For example, the model always decides based on the training data (often a...
October 15, 2023
Since the release of ChatGPT, large language models (LLMs) are becoming more and more popular. New LLM-powered tools come on the market almost every day.
October 14, 2023
On the Internet, you can often find PDFs or websites titled “The 100 Best Prompts to Boost Your Productivity.” These prompts are mostly for tools like ChatGP...
October 14, 2023
5 minute read
Do you want to make your web app accessible via the Internet? Deploying your web app gives you many advantages. You can quickly share the app with colleagues...
October 13, 2023
Don’t have enough time to watch a complete earnings call of a company? Maybe you have only a few questions. Then, it’s not necessary to listen to the whole e...
October 12, 2023
Do you often have problems with dependencies in your Python projects? Then, Poetry offers a solution for you. Poetry is a dependency management and packaging...
October 11, 2023
Do you often look for errors in software components that could prevent with a better testing strategy?
October 10, 2023
ChatGPT has impressively demonstrated the potential of AI chatbots. In the next few years, such AI chatbots will revolutionise many areas of the economy. Fra...
October 9, 2023
Today, we’re talking about the best EDGAR library we have ever seen! We’ve tested many EDGAR libraries in the last year, and none of them have met our requir...
October 8, 2023
Do you want to compare many quarterly reports of public companies? It’s tedious to look through all the quarterly reports by hand. An assistant would be very...
October 7, 2023
Do you want to know how to create an anomaly detector using Python and TensorFlow? Then this article is for you. Credit card companies use anomaly detectors ...
Data Science projects always need some kind of visualisation. For the initial analysis, data scientists usually use Jupyter Notebooks and libraries like matp...
October 5, 2023
MLflow is an open source platform to manage the lifecycle of ML models end to end. It tracks the code, data and results for each ML experiment, which means y...
August 10, 2023
5 minute read
Do you want to know how to get your OpenAI API Key? Yes, then this article is for you.
TL;DR Understand and implement an artificial neural network from scratch using NumPy, learn the basics of feedforward and backpropagation, and explore the im...
July 17, 2023
7 minute read
Everyone is talking about prompt engineering and how to write efficient prompts. A prompt refers to the input of the model. Many people think of this as the ...
July 13, 2023
4 minute read
The central task of a data scientist is to analyze large amounts of data. Afterwards, the data scientist must present the results clearly, e.g. with comprehe...
July 2, 2023
6 minute read
Everyone has been talking about Large Language Models (LLMs). ChatGPT shows the power of this phenomenal technology in an impressive way. LLMs are pre-traine...
July 1, 2023
7 minute read
The entire data science field has grown enormously in the last few years. Python is the most widely used programming language in this field, and many Data Sc...
June 29, 2023
8 minute read
Since the release of ChatGPT, everyone has been talking about Large Language Models (LLMs).
June 25, 2023
7 minute read
Our experience has shown that software projects are often insufficiently documented. But why? Most software projects have a limited budget and a tight schedu...
Large Language Models (LLMs) have great potential for many industries, including finance. ChatGPT has impressively demonstrated the power of such LLMs for th...
June 19, 2023
4 minute read
The bootstrap method is a resampling technique in which one draws many samples again from one sample. It is used to estimate summary statistics like the mean...
June 16, 2023
8 minute read
Developments in open-source artificial intelligence (AI) have accelerated massively in the last three months. So it stands to reason that the future of AI is...
June 15, 2023
10 minute read
Cross-validation (CV) is a statistical test procedure based on resampling. It is an essential tool in modern statistics. Resampling refers to repeatedly taki...
Lifelong learning is essential for personal growth and professional success in our ever-changing world. Be open to new insights and perspectives!
May 18, 2023
12 minute read
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been used in the industry for several years. The flexibility and handling of complex problems are what make CNNs so...
May 10, 2023
10 minute read
R is widely used in business and science as a data analysis tool. The programming language is an essential tool for data-driven tasks. For many Statisticians...
Python is one of the most popular programming languages among developers and Data Scientists. Developers use the language for backend and frontend developmen...
OpenBB is an open-source investment research software platform. The platform gives you access to high-quality financial market data and analytical tools. The...
April 29, 2023
10 minute read
ChatGPT has now been available to the public for several months. During this time, many useful use cases have been found. The ability to write code can be us...
April 23, 2023
5 minute read
Not long ago, everyone talked about ChatGPT, and now terms like Auto-GPT are already haunting the world. But what is Auto-GPT, and how can you use it? Auto-G...
April 15, 2023
7 minute read
A large amount of data is available on the web. Third-party applications can access this data via an application programming interface (API). Such services a...
April 9, 2023
12 minute read
A Progressive Web App (PWA) is a web application that has the characteristics of a native app.
April 6, 2023
11 minute read
PWA is the abbreviation for Progressive Web App. A progressive web app is a web application that has the characteristics of a native app. PWAs are supported ...
April 3, 2023
11 minute read
Do you need secure communication via MQTT? Yes, then this is the right article for you!
April 2, 2023
12 minute read
MQTT stands for Message Queuing Telemetry Transport. It is a messaging protocol for IoT devices with resource constraints. It is specialized for low bandwidt...
CRISP-DM stands for CRoss Industry Standard Process for Data Mining. The model divides a data science/data mining project into individual, clearly defined st...
January 15, 2023
11 minute read
Python is the most widely used programming language in the data science domain, and its popularity continues to grow. The entire data science field has grown...
TimescaleDB is an open-source relational database for time-series data. It uses full SQL, but scales in a way that was previously reserved for NoSQL database...
GitLab is an open-source software development platform with built-in version control, issue tracking and DevOps capabilities. You have probably used the onli...
December 3, 2022
6 minute read
MLflow is an open-source platform to manage the Machine Learning (ML) lifecycle. By using MLﬂow, the code, data, and results can be tracked for each ML exper...
Enter your search term...
© 2024 Tinz Twins Hub. Powered by Jekyll , Based on Minimal Mistakes .
This website uses cookies for various purposes, including analysis. By continuing to use our service, you consent to the use of cookies by the Cookie Policy .
