Preparing for Labor & Parenthood Educational Series
Expert advice, from pregnancy through newborn essentials
Our free virtual series covers all aspects of your pregnancy
Pregnancy is a journey, and this virtual series is designed to help guide parents-to-be from early pregnancy through a healthy birth and beyond.
Led by Melissa DiNunno, CNM , this free series of classes is held via WebEx and is open to all expecting parents.
This series begins on Monday, September 23, at 6 PM. Sessions are held weekly, skipping the weeks of September 30, October 14, and November 11.
While we encourage expecting parents to attend each session, you can drop in as your schedule allows.
Please note: by registering, you are signing up for the entire series. You do not need to register for each session individually.
Don't worry if you already miss a session or two — there's plenty of great information available in subsequent sessions!
You can find the full schedule and the topic for each session below.
September 23 - Easing Your Pregnancy & Birth
October 7 - Comfort Measures for Childbirth
October 21 - Unique Preparation for Your Labor & Birth
October 28 - Preparing for the Unexpected in Labor
November 4 - Your Care in the 4th Trimester
November 18 - Breastfeeding & Newborn Essentials
Each week, we'll send you a reminder email before each session. Simply click the "Join" button shortly before the session begins, and you're in!
Meet your instructor: Melissa DiNunno, CNM
Melissa will be your host and instructor for the “Preparing for Labor & Parenthood” Educational Series.
Prior to becoming a midwife, Melissa spent nearly 15 years working as a registered nurse on South Shore Health’s Birthing Unit and Mother Infant Unit.
In 2017, Melissa went back to school to realize her dream of becoming a certified nurse midwife.
After receiving her degree in 2019, Melissa started her new role as a certified nurse midwife at South Shore Hospital.
Melissa has two children of her own (one son and one daughter), each of whom was born at South Shore Hospital.
* South Shore Health is committed to keeping your health information private, and we are legally required to respect your confidentiality. We are following strict protocols and taking all necessary steps to ensure the safety and privacy of virtual seminar participants. By filling out the registration form, you are giving your consent to participate in a Virtual Seminar where your name or other personal information could appear on the screen in view of others.
Register Now
