Arvind Kejriwal vows to campaign for Modi in Delhi if he makes electricity free in all 22 BJP-ruled States
Updated - October 06, 2024 08:04 pm IST - New Delhi
Arvind Kejriwal said that people should tell the BJP that they don’t want double-engine government as double-engine government means “double loot”
Arvind Kejriwal. File
                      | Photo Credit: ANI
Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday (October 6, 2024) said he will campaign for Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the Delhi Assembly elections due in February 2025, if the Prime Minister makes electricity free in all 22 States in which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in power.
ADVERTISEMENT
“I want to tell Modi ji, next September you will turn 75 and retire. You have one more year left. I challenge Modiji, in the next one year, in your 22 States, fix the schools or make electricity free. I want to tell Modiji, just do one thing, in February Delhi elections are due. In all 22 States make electricity free before February, then I will campaign for Modi ji during Delhi elections,” Mr. Kejriwal said while addressing people at ‘Janta Ki Adalat’ programme of the AAP.
‘Double-engine failure’
The AAP supremo claimed that the double engine government of the BJP has failed across the country and exit polls show that in Haryana and Jammu-Kashmir BJP’s double engine governments are going out of power.
ADVERTISEMENT
Mr. Kejriwal claimed that the BJP cannot even show improvement in Gujarat, where it has been in power for 30 years. He claimed that, when he went to Gujarat to campaign two years ago, he could not find one school the BJP had improved, alleging that they have “destroyed” education for the poor.
Sign up for newsletters, unlock features and do more on The Hindu
LOG IN
SUBSCRIBE NOW
Vows to get Statehood for Delhi
The AAP chief said that Delhi’s Assembly election is due in February 2025 and the BJP will say that ‘make double-engine government’ and people should tell them that they don’t want double-engine government as double-engine government means “double loot”.
“During the 1990s we used to hear that the underworld ruled Mumbai. That is the state of Delhi now. Delhi Police is under the BJP-governed Central government and they don’t take care of the law and order situation in Delhi. They are just focussed on stopping Delhi government’s works... Today, I promise to you all that I will get full statehood for Delhi and free Delhi of L-G’s rule,” he said.
The AAP supremo alleged that Mr. Modi says that he is a thief. “I’m not a thief and that is why I’m saying with confidence that if I’m honest then vote for me, else do not vote for me,” he said.
This is a Premium article available exclusively to our subscribers. To read 250+ such premium articles every
        month
unlock them all
You have exhausted your free article limit.
Please support quality journalism.
GET YOUR DISCOUNTED ACCESS
Log in
You have exhausted your free article limit.
Please support quality journalism.
GET YOUR DISCOUNTED ACCESS
Log in
X
The Hindu operates by its editorial values to provide you quality journalism.
Support our reporting.
Read unlimited articles.
to read unlimited content from The Hindu
SUBSCRIBE NOW
Related Topics
The Hindu
Group News Sites
To enjoy additional benefits
