Climate-informed Ministry: What Do We Do Now?
🗓️ Sunday, October 6, 2024
⏰ 1:30 PM – 4:30 PM
The event will also be available virtually via Zoom. Please register to receive the Zoom link.
Reading sacred scriptures and texts with a “green lens”
Emphasizing connection and community
Building and growing community partnerships, including with farms and local businesses
Working against environmental injustice
Telling hope-filled climate stories.
This type of ministry addresses issues like protection of the land and water, increased food prices, threats to vulnerable people, climate-induced migration, and psychological crises related to climate stress. By integrating climate awareness regularly into sermons and classes, offering counseling and other opportunities to process climate anxiety, and creating community-focused initiatives, climate-informed ministries aim to build resilience and meet the evolving needs of their communities amidst rapidly changing environmental conditions.
At this special “Faith Field Day,” you’ll have an opportunity to begin your exploration of Climate-informed Ministry and consider how it’s important for your own context. The time will include:
6 actionable presentations on topics such as dealing with eco-anxiety, environmental ethics, environmental justice issues in Iowa, and what resilience can look like for a congregation like yours.
A Q&A session with the panelists
An opportunity to tour the building and grounds of the “greenest church in Iowa.” It’s an amazing space, and you’ll definitely be inspired to think anew about your own location, building, and opportunities!
Separate interactive, exploratory activities for children are available.
Featured Speakers
Rob Hogg , Iowa state Senator and author of America’s Climate Century: What Climate Change Means for America in the 21st Century and What Americans Can Do about It
Rev. Diana Smith , pastor, Unitarian Universalist Society of Coralville (the greenest church in Iowa!)
Karla Stolfus Detweiler , Climate Justice Coordinator for the Mennonite Church USA
Robert Traer , author of several books including Doing Environmental Ethics
Vanessa Burnett , expert on organizational resilience and founder of Shift the Country
Karin Stein , Iowa state organizer for Mom’s Clean Air Force
Myron Herzberg , ELCA pastor and former worship & music minister of the Grace Institute for Spiritual Formation
Register Today
The event is free, though donations to Iowa Interfaith Power & Light are welcome. Bring a group from your congregation and start dreaming together!
JOIN THE MOVEMENT
Sign up for our mailing list and you’ll be kept up to date on the actions people of faith like you are taking in Iowa to address the climate crisis. In return, we promise only to send emails that represent a real need you can help to address.
515.216.4895
Pin It on Pinterest
