Writing a new recipe for employee recruitment and retention
A webinar on supporting newcomer young adults to strengthen your food and beverage team
For two years, the PolicyWise for Children & Families team has been collaborating with community partners seeking to understand and address the employment needs of newcomer young adults in Alberta’s food and beverage (F&B) sector.
On Tuesday, December 10, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. MT, we invite you to Recipe for Retention: Supporting Newcomer Young Adults to Strengthen Your Food & Beverage Team . This informative webinar will explore our research and collaborative work on how Alberta’s F&B sector can write a new recipe for employee recruitment and retention.
This webinar is ideal for:
F&B employers
Human resources professionals
Workforce development organizations
Settlement services organizations
Why a new recipe is needed?
Alberta’s F&B sector has had a history of struggling with high staff turnover and vacancy rates. The COVID-19 pandemic only worsened this, with the sector now having the highest job vacancy rate in the province at 8.3% .
Meanwhile, newcomer young adults who arrived in Canada within the last five years face an unemployment rate nearly double the national average.
Reducing the barriers that newcomers aged 18 to 29 face when entering the F&B sector can attract more of them and boost overall staff retention and well-being.
At this webinar , we will be:
Sharing insights from our research
Offering solutions for the F&B sector
Showing you how to access training to support newcomer young adult employees
You will learn about key findings from two years of research on the unique challenges newcomer young adults face in the F&B sector. We will also show how addressing these barriers benefits employees and employers.
Get an inside look at the innovative, tested equity, diversity, and inclusion training materials that we developed specifically for the F&B sector. You will hear how the training supports sector leaders in improving the recruitment, retention, and well-being of newcomer young adult employees.
Finally, you will learn how you can access and apply these free equity, diversity, and inclusion-focused training materials in your business or organization to foster a more inclusive workplace and support newcomer employees.
Register for the webinar!
Don’t miss this opportunity to learn how to create a more inclusive, supportive, and effective workplace for newcomer young adults.
Register today and start writing your new recipe for employee recruitment and retention!
Date: Tuesday, December 10, 2024
Time: 9:00 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. MT
Please note: This webinar will be recorded. The recording will be hosted online and shared broadly for those unable to attend. Stay tuned for access details!
Reducing employment barriers for newcomer young adults
If you would like a preview of some of the research and solutions that the project team will be presenting at this webinar, we suggest you take a look at their first summary report released in April 2024.
Supporting Newcomer Young Adult Employment in the Food and Beverage Sector identifies the barriers to employment for newcomer young adults in the food and beverage sector. It then provides five principles and actions newcomer young adults, food and beverage operators, and social and community support agencies can take to reduce these barriers.
Summary Report
Project Funders
The Government of Alberta is working in partnership with the Government of Canada to provide employment support programs and services.
Project Partners
Phone: 780-944-8630
Calgary, AB, Canada T2N 2A1
Phone: 587-354-4805
Email: info@policywise.com
We’d like to acknowledge and show respect to the histories, languages, and cultures of the First Nations, Métis, and Inuit, whose presence continues to enrich our communities.
