INVITE ONLY EVENT
This event is by invite-only. Please choose the option below to proceed:
Please Login to use previous player information:
Log in or Create an Account
Your free player profile will help you showcase your skills to coaches and scouts, increasing your chances of getting noticed.
The Hawaii Fall Showcase has established itself as the premier, must-attend event in Hawaii with over 40 players taken in the MLB Draft and over 150 college commitments. This event which originated in 2010 has provided an unrivaled platform for the Hawaii baseball community.
In 2024 this platform will be amplified even more with the partnership between the Hawaii Fall Showcase and Prep Baseball Hawaii, the industry leader in player data retrieval and in-depth scouting coverage.
The Hawaii Fall Showcase: Powered by Prep Baseball Hawaii will take place October 25-27 at Central Oahu Regional Park.
Highlights will be promoted on PrepBaseball.com and Prep Baseball Hawaii's social media platforms. Prep Baseball is subscribed to by nearly 1000 colleges and Major League Baseball clubs.
Prep Baseball's goal is to help student-athletes achieve their dreams of playing baseball at the next level. In 2023 there were 30+ MLB scouts in attendance along with numerous colleges.
This is a WOOD BAT ONLY event.
If you want to participate in this event, please request an invite (menu on left) as this is an INVITE-ONLY EVENT.
Four teams:
Oahu 1
Oahu 2
Big Island
Maui/Kauai/Lanai/Molokai
Big Island players: All invites and registrations will be through Big Island Wood Bat Academy. Kaha Wong and Cheri Atkins will send invites and construct Team Big Island.
*Pitcher Only's will only need to show up on Day 2 of the event when they are slotted to pitch.
WHEN
October 25 - Position Player Workout
October 26 - Live Game Play
October 27 - Live Game Play
*Pitcher Only's will only need to show up on the day they are slotted to pitch.
WHERE
WHO
5:00 PM - Positon Player Workout Starts (Infielders, Outfielders, and/or Catchers)
Running Times
Offensive Evaluations
Mechanical Evaluations
Mechanical Evaluation
Saturday, October 26, 2024
1:00 PM - Pre-Game Batting Practice - Maui/Kauai
1:30 PM - Pre-Game Batting Practice - Oahu 2
2:15 PM - Maui/Kauai vs. Oahu 2
Sunday, October 27, 2024
9:30 AM - Pre-Game Batting Practice - Oahu 1
10:15 AM - Maui/Kauai vs. Oahu 1___
1:00 PM - Pre-Game Batting Practice - Big Island
1:30 PM - Pre-Game Batting Practice - Oahu 2
2:15 PM - Big Island vs. Oahu 2
* Each Game Will Be 8 Innings with Pitchers Facing 4 Batters per Half Inning
NOTE: Player videos will be added to profiles. Videos are only viewable with a PBR subscription. We will send coupon codes to our subscriptions once videos have been posted.
The Prep Baseball refund policy is that of a transfer nature. If your son is not able to attend the scheduled date, we will keep a credit on file for a future event. This credit has no expiration date and can be used at any point in the player's high school career.
SCOUTING, TECHNOLOGY, AND DATA ANALYSIS IN ONE EVENT
Prep Baseball Player Profile
+ Expand to learn more
Each prospect's recruiting process starts and ends with the Player Profile, and our showcases revolve around building up that profile, maximizing its content and reach. For first-time attendees, a new player profile will be created, hosting all of your information, videos, head shot, metrics and more, making it one of the most important tools in a prospect's recruiting process.
Repeat showcase performances will continue to update your player profile, creating a history of prospect progress and ensuring the most up-to-date information is easily accessible throughout the fast-paced scouting community. These profiles are also searchable by a range of data points and metrics through our advanced search engine, making it a one-stop shop for recruiters and scouts.
Player Data
+ Expand to learn more
Prep Baseball stats captured at its showcases, published inside its player profiles, are the industry standard in the scouting community, carrying the highest level of credibility in actionable data. Prep Baseball profiles are the most reliable resources for prospect information due to this reason alone.
Stats are collected using only the highest of standard equipment including Swift laser timers, TrackMan ball tracking technology, Blast Motion swing sensors, and Stalker radars. All stats are hosted in player profiles accompanied by Performance Tiers that show where a prospect ranks among his peers.
Performance Video
+ Expand to learn more
All prospect performances will be professionally video taped, edited and uploaded into their Prep Baseball Profile. Videos will consist of multiple angles and record all aspects of the showcase including 60s, live batting practice, bullpen sessions, and defensive performances.
Videos are hosted in Prep Baseball Profiles and used for video spotlights, content, social media and more. Videos are accessible to all PBR+ subscribers.
Scouting Reports
+ Expand to learn more
Prep Baseball is built at the hands of some of the most tenured and respected scouts in the industry. We pride ourselves on our level of prospect knowledge, most of which is gained through our events. Showcases are designed and engineered by state Scouting Directors with the goal of collecting as much information about a prospect as possible and relaying our findings to the public through data collection and scouting reports.
Post-Event Content
+ Expand to learn more
One of the many results of a Prep Baseball showcase is getting all the information collected to the public in a timely and digestible manner. Every showcase will be featured on the Prep Baseball website and social channels through various forms of post-event content, leaderboards, video spotlights and more.
Account Dashboard
+ Expand to learn more
In an effort to elevate the post-event experience for players who attend a showcase, the Account Dashboard is now the prospect's one-stop shop to view all of his post-event deliverables, including showcase video, data, Vizual Edge Score, and more. The Account Dashboard also gives players a window into upcoming events, calendar management, among other organizational tools.
PREP BASEBALL TECH PACKAGE
Following a Prep Baseball event, players will receive unrivaled access to their advanced ball-tracking and swing metrics through the TrackMan and BlastConnect apps as well as visual skills through Vizual Edge testing. Furthermore, key metrics will live inside the player's official Prep Baseball profile to help them in their recruitment process.
TrackMan
+ Expand to learn more
TrackMan is the global leader in ball-tracking accuracy. Following a Prep Baseball event, all players will get unrivaled access to their performance data in the TrackMan interactive app. Players can create custom dashboards that unlock both hitting and pitching data.
Pitching Features Include:
Pitching data access includes: release speed, spin rate, spin axis, release height, extension, horizontal and vertical break, and location on each pitch
See each pitch trajectory in 3D from multiple viewpoints
Create defined tags to label and compare pitches
Pin pitches together to create tunneling visualizations between different pitch types
Visualize each pitch location
Hitting Features Include:
Hitting data access includes: Exit speed, distance traveled, launch angle, launch direction, spin rate, contact depth and contact side/height for each swing.
Visualize plate coverage
Pairing of all data points on each swing
All key ball flight metrics will live inside player profiles at prepbaseballreport.com for the benefit of college coaches and recruiters, which will help prospects advance to the next level.
Blast Motion
+ Expand to learn more
Blast is the global leader in swing analysis and used by nearly every MLB organization. Following a Prep Baseball event, players will receive access to BlastConnect in the Blast App, which unlocks critical insights and actionable data from their performance.
Features include:
Professional-level swing analytics to help players improve their hitting performance
Free 30-day trial to Blast Premium Services subscription
Key hitting metrics and Blast Motion Scores will also live inside player profiles at prepbaseballreport.com for the benefit of college coaches and recruiters, which will help prospects advance to the next level.
Additional Athletic Testing
Body Composition
Players' body composition will be officially measured using state-of-the-art, medical-grade technology that will provide precise insights into height, weight, skeletal muscle mass, BMI and more. Players will step on scales using bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA), a method for measuring body composition, including muscle mass, body fat, and total body water.
Our scales will then produce several metrics giving insight into the prospect’s body composition. Height will be measured using a digital stadiometer to get precise height measurements.
Grip Strength
Hitters' grip strength will be tested using a digital hydraulic dynamometer. Grip strength is an essential component to bat strength and controlling the barrel. Hitters will be put through a max strength test on both hands, shedding light on hand strength and potential power and bat control down the road.
Location
94-801 Kamehameha Hwy
HI
2026
LHP
DRAFTHQ September 30, 2024
DRAFTHQ September 17, 2024
DRAFTHQ September 16, 2024
