Get Your FREE Guide to Autumn in New England!
Also receive the New England Today newsletter curated by the editors at Yankee Magazine!
Email(Required)
Where is New England?
Tucked into the northeast corner of the United States, New England is a region of tall mountains, rich farmland, salty seacoasts, and everything in between. Steeped in history and full of spirit, New England is home to some of the nation’s most popular cultural attractions, parks, universities, and sports teams. Four distinct seasons and the perfect assortment of big cities and small towns make New England a favorite travel destination.
What are the New England States?
New England is made up of six beautiful and diverse states. In the northeast corner is Maine. Next to Maine, on its western border, is New Hampshire. On the other side of New Hampshire is Vermont. Beneath New Hampshire and Vermont is Massachusetts, and beneath Massachusetts are little Rhode Island to the southeast and Connecticut to the south.
Map of New England
Guide to the New England States
Connecticut. Connecticut is the southernmost of the New England states, making it the closest to New York City. Nicknamed “the Nutmeg State,” it’s known for its old money, red chowder, the insurance capital of Hartford , superior thin-crust New Haven pizza , and the fictional Gilmore Girls town of Stars Hollow.
Maine. The largest of the New England states, Maine is also one of the most popular among tourists. Nicknamed “the Pine Tree State” and “Vacationland,” it’s known for its thick forests, rocky coastline, wild blueberries , scenic lighthouses , lobster boats , and mega-author Stephen King .
Massachusetts. Thanks to the bustling hub of Boston and a rich colonial history, Massachusetts is the most frequently visited of the New England states. Nicknamed “the Bay State,” it’s known for its top-notch universities, baked beans , clam chowder , Cape Cod ’s summer paradise, Plymouth Rock , and the Kennedys .
New Hampshire. Bearing a kick-butt state motto (“Live Free or Die”), New Hampshire is the rebel of the New England states. Nicknamed “the Granite State,” it’s known for its primary-season political clout, White Mountains (including Mount Washington , the highest peak in the Northeast), Adam Sandler, and Lake Winnipesaukee .
Rhode Island. This isn’t just the smallest of the New England states — it’s the smallest state in America. Nicknamed “the Ocean State,” Rhode Island is known for its 400 miles of coastline, Newport mansions , johnnycakes , and Brown University.
Vermont. Vermont is famous for its progressive, environmental vibe. Nicknamed “the Green Mountain State,” it’s also known for its ski mountains, craft beer, dairy farms, Ben and Jerry’s ice cream , and Champy, the mythical Lake Champlain water monster .
