By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies and similar tracking technologies described in our privacy policy .
I Agree
ACEC is offering a four-part webinar series, held quarterly in 2024. The courses will center on markets that are forecasted to experience change or growth. Each session will include a panel of speakers including industry experts, clients, and association leaders that will share their market specific trends and insights.
>>Click here to register for the full series and save 25% on our regular online class pricing!
ACEC will focus on the growth occurring in the energy market. Through a partner presentation with the New Energy Committee, participants will hear about trends impacting the energy market including the necessity of coal, renewable alternatives, power plant development and the vulnerability of the grid. Also, hear about the energy transition and how it is impacting vertical buildings and what design engineers need to know.
Presenters: Michelle Bloodworth, President and CEO, America’s Power; Justin Vala, Senior Vice President, Engineering and Construction, Tenaska; and Peter McPhee, Senior Program Director with the Massachusetts Clean Energy Center
Hear from a panel of clients, developers and architects on adaptive re-use in the commercial real estate sector. Through a partner presentation with ACEC’s Coalitions, find out what’s next for office including conversions to affordable housing, multifamily living spaces, entertainment centers and healthcare offices. Hear about design challenges, success stories and how engineers can bring value to these project types, and when to demo and when to re-build.
Presenters: Steven Paynter, Principal/Global Practice Area Leader, Gensler; Rob Wenger, Vice President or Preconstruction, WCS Construction, LLC; and Aaron Jodka, Director of Research | U.S. Capital Markets, Colliers
Hear from a panel of owners, clients and industry experts on the trends impacting the health care and life sciences market alongside the ACEC Coalitions CASE and CAMEE groups. Panelists will cover what sectors within the market are experiencing the most growth, the surge in mental health, the aging population and the related facilities. Also hear about what regional locations are expected to see growth.
Presenters: Debbie Beck, Health Care Operations and Planning Executive & Principal, Perkins+Will; Jason D’Orlando, Executive Managing Director, Project & Development Services, Cushman & Wakefield; and Sarah Scheffel, Senior Development Manager, The HYM Investment Group, LLC.
Data Centers & Telecommunications Wednesday, November 13, 2024, 1:30 – 2:30 PM Eastern
ACEC will present a panel of experts in collaboration with the ACEC’s new Technology Committee on the data center and telecommunications markets. The data center market continues to grow, and incentives are provided to those who can locate land to build new centers and hyperscale data centers on. Also hear how the latest trend “AI” is impacting the market.
Presenters: David Fanning, Senior Associate | Global Critical Facilities Leader, Gensler; John Pomposello, Senior Vice President Network Advisory Services, CBRE; and Kevin Imboden, Global Director of Market Research & Competitive Intelligence, EdgeConneX.
*The recording for each part will be added to the class materials the following day.
Can’t join us for the full series? Click below to register for one class.
Location
Venue
Online
Website
Become A Member
Join the nation’s premier organization promoting and advocating for the business interests of America’s engineering and design services industry.
