Sep
06
What Is It?
Whether you are an AI startup founder or an AI and data practitioner looking to understand the current state of the market, you’ll find what you are looking for at the AI Startup Showcase on October 31st, from 10 AM to 4 PM PT.
Startup Founders
AI Startup Showcase:
We are looking for the very best pre-seed, seed, series A, and post-series A startups and founders in AI to participate in the AI Startup Showcase.
We all know that AI has become a core strategic advantage for many businesses. As part of our efforts to grow the AI community, we are creating a platform for startups to showcase their products and services to VCs, our conference attendees, and the data science community.
Whatever your funding level, at the Startup Showcase, you’ll find new channels to spread the word about your company and build connections that will expand your network, from a dedicated booth to Scale-up Workshops and Expert Roundtables.
Make the Jump Dinner:
Selected startups will also have access to our first-ever Make the Jump Dinner on Thursday, October 10th in San Francisco.
ODSC, in partnership with Cortical and Village Global, is inviting experienced roboticists, and AI, data science, or data engineering practitioners exploring starting a company to join us for an exclusive gathering for aspiring AI entrepreneurs.
This intimate gathering brings together a hand-picked group of like-minded professionals and creates an opportunity for you to receive feedback on your ideas from early-stage VCs and fellow practitioners, connect with potential co-founders, gain valuable advice on launching your startup, and connect with peers.
You can apply here for a chance to participate, and we’ll be in touch if space is available.
ODSC West Attendees:
Explore the future of AI products and services and meet the founders and creators of these innovations at the AI Startup Showcase.
You’ll also have a chance to see first-hand how these products and services work during living solution showcase talks. Join us for an exciting day where innovative startups take the stage to showcase their groundbreaking ideas and technologies.
Register for ODSC West here and get your pass to the future of AI and data science.
Menu
Privacy Settings
We use cookies to enhance your experience while using our website. If you are using our Services via a browser you can restrict, block or remove cookies through your web browser settings. We also use content and scripts from third parties that may use tracking technologies. You can selectively provide your consent below to allow such third party embeds. For complete information about the cookies we use, data we collect and how we process them, please check our Privacy Policy
Youtube
Vimeo
Google Maps
Save
