Applicant Registration
By completing this CAO registration form online you will save time and allow us to better serve you.
Instructions
We're excited that you've decided to register with the Council for Airport Opportunity!
The online registration is broken down into several small pages. Please complete the information on each page, review your information at the end, and then submit your application.
Keep in mind that:
All fields marked with an asterisk (*) on the application are required.
You must have scripting enabled on your browser in order for the application to function properly.
You must click the 'Submit' button at the end to send your application to us.
Review your application at the end before you submit it.
At this time, you have to finish the application in one sitting. If you leave the form idle for more than 20 minutes, your session will expire, and you will have to start over!
Please pick your nearest Facility
In order to start your application, we need to know what CAO facility you are interested in.
CAO Facility
Registrant Information
Contact Information
First Name
Middle Name
Last Name
The Council for Airport Opportunity is subject to certain record-keeping and reporting requirements. The Council for Airport Opportunity, in complying with these requirements, is inviting program applicants to voluntarily self-identify their race/ethnicity, gender, and veteran status in their application with Council for Airport Opportunity.
Participation in any and all part(s) of the survey is strictly voluntary, and your response(s) will not be used in any decision with regards to any services provided by Council for Airport Opportunity. Refusal to provide this information will not adversely affect your consideration to enroll with the Council for Airport Opportunity. If you do not wish to self-identify, please check the box(es) indicating “I do not wish to self-identify” in the corresponding question(s).
The information obtained will be kept confidential to the extent possible and may only be used in accordance with the provisions of applicable laws, executive orders, and regulations, including those that require the information to be summarized and reported to our funding partners.
Gender:
Race/Ethnicity:If you do not wish to self-identify your Race/Ethnicity, please select “I do not wish to self-identify"
Veteran Status:
Are you an active, reserve (including the National Guard), retired, or separated veteran of the United States Armed Forces?
Language Fluency
In addition to English, do you speak any other languages?
Spanish
Italian
French
German
Mandarin
Cantonese
Portuguese
Creole
Punjabi
Bengali
Identification
Please enter your Driver's License(s) information here. If you don't hold a Driver's License, select None for Driver's License ID/Type/Class and leave the other fields in this section as is. If you hold more than one type of Driver's License, click Add Another Driver's License and enter your information.
Driver's License ID/Type/Class
License State Issued
License Expiration Date
Highest Grade Level Completed
Employment Interest
What type of job are you looking for at the airport? Please pick from the options below.
Aircraft/Building Cleaner
Aircraft Maintenance
Customer Service
Ground Services
I am legally authorized to work in the United States.
Are you currently employed at one of our local airports?
Do you have an active SIDA badge?
Employment History
Starting with your most recent Employer, please enter your work experience here. If you do not have any prior work experience, please enter "NA" for Employer Name and do not fill out the rest of the fields in this section. If you wish to enter more than one Employer, click Add Another Employer and enter your information.
Employer Name
Employer Phone
Employer State
Work Type
Start Date
End Date
Job Title
Job Duties
Certifications
Please enter your Certification(s) information here. If you don't hold any Certifications, select None for Please list any work-related Certifications you have earned and leave the other fields in this section as is. If you hold more than one Certification, click Add Another Certification and enter your information.
Please list any work-related Certifications you have earned.
If other, please provide the Certification name here.
Certification Expiration Date
Authorization
I am currently a participant in a workforce development program at the Council for Airport Opportunity funded by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. I hereby authorize my employer to release to the Council for Airport Opportunity any documentation concerning the position for which I am hired. Such information may include, but is not limited to job title, hourly/weekly wages, job start date, job end date, and number of hours worked. I understand that this authorization is voluntary and will not affect the services or level of service I receive.
Authorize
I certify that the information I have provided to the Council for Airport Opportunity is accurate and complete to the best of my knowledge. I understand that false or deliberately incomplete answers may result in my disqualification from services offered by the Council for Airport Opportunity.
Certify
As part of your relationship with us, we will provide you with communications related to CAO services. By accepting this Agreement, you consent to receive communications in via text messages and other electronic forms of communication for any information and services, either now or in the future.
Accept
reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam.
The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA.
© 2018 CAO
