WHO approves first mpox diagnostic test for emergency use
The agency said it was evaluating three new mpox diagnostic tests for its emergency use listing (EUL) and was also in discussions with other manufacturers to expand the availability of mpox diagnostic tools.
Read by: 100 Industry Professionals
Read by 100 Industry Professionals
Bengaluru: The World Health Organization approved on Thursday the first mpox diagnostic test for emergency use to expand access to medical testing urgently.
The agency granted approval for emergency use of Abbott Laboratories unit's PCR test , Alinity m MPXV assay.
The test enables detection of mpox virus DNA from human skin lesion swabs, the agency said, adding that it was designed for use by trained clinical laboratory personnel.
The agency said it was evaluating three new mpox diagnostic tests for its emergency use listing (EUL) and was also in discussions with other manufacturers to expand the availability of mpox diagnostic tools.
Advt
Swiss drugmaker Roche and U.S. diagnostics firm Labcorp are among companies working to enhance laboratory testing capacity for mpox.
The EUL procedure is a risk-based assessment of unlicensed vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics to expedite their availability during public health emergencies .
In August, WHO asked manufacturers to submit their products for an emergency review and has been in discussion with them about the need for effective diagnostics, particularly in low-income groups. (Reporting by Mariam Sunny and Akash Sriram in Bengaluru; Editing by Mohammed Safi Shamsi)
Find this Comment Offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the submit button. This will alert our moderators to take actions
REASONS FOR REPORTING
Out of Context / Spam
Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.
Download ETHealthworld App
Get Realtime updates
Subscribe to our Daily Newsletter
Advertise With Us
We have various options to advertise with us including Events, Advertorials, Banners, Mailers, etc.
Get in Touch
Download ETHealthworld App
Get updates on your preferred social platform
Follow us for the latest news, insider access to events and more.
