My Region: US
Choose your region
We operate a single website, with regions serving tailored fundraising, giving and shopping content. We use your device’s IP address to find the most appropriate region for you to get the most out of our website. If you would like to switch to another region, for content or currency reasons, you can do so at any time.
Global
Our Global region presents an online merchandise store, and fundraising and giving options, appropriate for people living all over the world.
Currency: United States Dollar
US
Our US region presents an online merchandise store, tailored fundraising information, and donation options that are particularly pertinent to people in the United States of America.
Currency: United States Dollar
Our UK region presents an online merchandise store, tailored fundraising information, and donation options, including Gift Aid, that are specific to people in the United Kingdom.
Currency: British Pound
Europe
Our Europe region is best suited to those living in the Eurozone. All amounts for adoptions, donations, and goods in our online shop (orders shipped from UK) are displayed in Euros.
Currency: Euro
Please note that all adoptions and wishlist items are processed centrally by the Sheldrick Wildlife Trust, irrespective of region. Switching between regions will remove any items in your basket.
Our Wish List
Our wish list is made up of much-needed items and field equipment that allow us to further our mission to protect and preserve wildlife. Whether bought by yourself, or as a gift for someone else, wish list donations make a lasting difference for our conservation projects, enabling us to continue providing vital help to wild animals in distress.
Gifts are calculated from actual costs, offering an indication of what donations can fund at a field level. We are deeply grateful for all wish list donations, which are restricted for use in the project area to which the gift relates. This ensures the most essential equipment and items required at the time a gift is received can be sourced for our conservation work.
Milk feed for an infant elephant
Rescued orphan elephants in our care require specialist milk formula to survive and our Keepers bottle feed the Nursery orphans freshly mixed milk every three hours, day and night. Your gift can help us provide 2 bottles of milk – enough for one milk feed for one orphan.
US$6.00
One day’s milk for a Nursery elephant
The rescued orphan elephants at our Nursery drink 2 bottles of specialist formula milk every three hours, day and night. Your gift can provide 16 bottles (up to 24 litres) of freshly mixed milk, enough to feed a rescued elephant for a whole day.
US$48.00
1 bag of milk formula powder (25kg)
The orphans at our three Reintegration Units require a special follow-on formula milk which comes in sacks. As they grow, so do their appetites! Your gift can help feed these growing youngsters until they are reintegrated to the wild.
US$70.00
1 pair of wire and bolt cutters
A gift of bolt cutters is a lifesaver for any animal that has become caught in a snare. Used by our Vet Units, they allow Vet Teams to cut a trapped animal free and alleviate their suffering.
US$60.00
10 plastic milk bottles
An orphaned elephant can drink up to 24 litres of milk a day making durable plastic milk bottles a much needed gift among our Nursery and Reintegration Units.
US$50.00
20 milk bottle teats
Along with the milk bottles, teats are a small yet invaluable item always in demand. A gift can help keep our Units fully stocked, ensuring the orphans get the daily nutrition they need.
US$50.00
Buy as a gift for friends, family or colleagues and they’ll receive an email explaining how the item will be put to use.
Add a personal message
We can add a message of your choice to the ecard.
Choose the date
Decide when you want the ecard to be sent during the checkout process.
Celebrating a birthday, bat mitzvah, anniversary, or simply looking to get a gift for someone who loves wildlife?
Whatever the occasion, our wish list offers a unique way to show people you're celebrating them and thinking about our wild world. Select symbolic gifts such as milk feeds for orphaned elephants, binoculars for rangers, or green clay for veterinary treatments, and you'll be helping further our conservation work in Kenya
50 tree seedlings
Trees provide food, shelter and shade to animals yet deforestation is having a devastating effect on Kenya’s wildlife. Your gift will help replant lost forests with indigenous tree saplings, grown in our Nurseries.
US$35.00
Sturdy, well-fitting boots are an essential piece of equipment for our rangers who are constantly on the move through tough terrain, come rain or shine. Your gift will keep our rangers’ feet clean and dry as they can scour vast areas for poaching activities.
US$40.00
Binoculars
Help us watch over wildlife. Working in vast conservation areas, a gift of good quality binoculars will enable our brave rangers to monitor wildlife and spot any illegal activity.
US$250.00
Help us monitor camera-shy wild animals. Your gift will allow us to photo-capture wild animals in our protected areas, collecting critical data about wildlife and habitats.
US$230.00
Digital camera
Your gift of a good quality, hardy camera can help document everything that takes place within the fragile habitats our field teams work in, whether its monitoring wild elephants or documenting confiscated weapons.
US$400.00
Feeding blanket
Your gift can help a newly rescued orphaned elephant settle in. Made to our exact requirements, feeding blankets help mimic the feeling of a mother elephants’ body and provides a place for the orphans to rest their trunk when feeding, like they would with mum.
US$15.00
Field Notes and Communications from Angela Sheldrick
Field Notes and Communications from Angela Sheldrick
Global Newsletter & Communications
Global Newsletter & Communications
USA Newsletter & Communications
USA Newsletter & Communications
Find us on
The David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust, known as Sheldrick Wildlife Trust, is a charity in Kenya, a registered charity in England
and Wales number 1103836, and is supported by The David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust USA, Inc. a 501(c)3 in the United States (EIN 30-0224549)
Copyright © 2024, The David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust. All Rights Reserved.
