Search all Bandcamp artists, tracks, and albums
Search all Bandcamp artists, tracks, and albums
Get fresh music recommendations delivered to your inbox every Friday.
We’ve updated our Terms of Use to reflect our new entity name and address. You can review the changes here .
We’ve updated our Terms of Use . You can review the changes here .
Record/Vinyl + Digital Album
Vinyl limited to 270 copies worldwide. Pressed on 140g blue and pink swirl vinyl.
Includes digital pre-order of Smoke // Doomsday Profit.
        
            
                
                You get 1 track now
                (streaming via the free Bandcamp app
                and also available as a high-quality download in MP3, FLAC and more), plus the
                complete album the moment it’s released.
Download available in 24-bit/48kHz.
edition of 270
Digital Album
Streaming + Download
Pre-order of Smoke // Doomsday Profit. You get 1 track now (streaming via the free Bandcamp app and also available as a high-quality download in MP3, FLAC and more), plus the complete album the moment it’s released.
Download includes both sides of the split: three tracks from Doomsday Profit and three from Smoke.
Purchasable with gift card
Download available in 24-bit/48kHz.
releases October 25, 2024
2.
3.
about
"The new Smoke // Doomsday Profit Split is a journey through the decaying heart of the American South, where the unbearable weight of history hangs heavy, and the air is thick with superstition. Both bands’ deep understanding of Southern Gothic tradition, mastery of doom metal’s crushing weight, and heavy psychedelia’s mind-expanding potential make this split a unique offering for your Halloween rituals. Wade into the darkness with this new album, knowing full well that there may be no return." —BLARE
credits
Ryan Sweeney (bass, vocals)
Tradd Yancey (drums, percussion)
All tracks recorded and mixed by Scotty Sandwich at The Sandwich Shoppe. Mastered by Mikey Allred at Dark Art Audio. Cover art by Dalton Huskin.
All songs by Doomsday Profit. ©2024. All rights reserved. Doomsday Profit Songs (BMI)
Our heartfelt thanks go to our families and loved ones; David Ruiz; Scotty Sandwich; Mikey Allred; Gideon and Olde Magick Records; Dalton, Stephen, Ben and Alex from Smoke; and you.
SMOKE
Dalton Huskin (guitar, vocals)
Recorded at Fainting Goat Studios and The Sandwich Shoppe. Mixed by Ben McLeod. Mastered by Mikey Allred. Cover art by Dalton Huskin.
All songs by Smoke. Lyrics by Dalton Huskin. ©2024. All rights reserved.
Special thanks to our friends, fans, and family for the endless support.
Check out Smoke's side: thecultofsmoke.bandcamp.com
Vinyl available from Olde Magick Records: oldemagickrecords.bandcamp.com
license
tags
Tags
placeholder
"Doomsday Profit deep-fries its doom riffs in psychedelic scuzz, riding bad vibes toward sweet oblivion." - Patrick Wall, for Free Times
This band can't miss adamdoom
supported by 14 fans who also own “Smoke // Doomsday Profit”
If you like to live on the edge and have no regard for mindless compliance or conformity, this might just be the ticket. But I gotta warn you, Auralayer's Thousand Petals is probably going to duke it out for Album of the Year at Clean and Sober Stoner, maybe even the Doom Charts, against the likes of Hail the Void, Faery Ring, Snakemother and Acid King. Once you cross that line, it can be hard to go back...
           Cleanandsoberstoner.com Scott Spiers
