Oct 01, 2024 October 1, 2024 1 128
1/2 cup dark brown sugar
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/4 tsp. baking soda
1/2 tsp. kosher salt
3/4 cup ROGERS FOODS LARGE FLAKE OATS
1 Granny Smith apple, grated (about 1/2 cup)
1/2 cup chopped apple chips
....
2 Tbsp. apple cider or juice
3 Tbsp. caramel sauce
Instructions
1.
2.
Brown the butter by melting it over medium heat in a medium saucepan, then let it cook and bubble for an additional 3 to 5 minutes or until the foam and butter underneath is golden brown. Transfer it to a large, heatproof mixing bowl and swirl a few times to help stop the browning. Let it cool to room temperature, about 30 minutes.
3.
Meanwhile, whisk together the flour, baking soda, salt, and apple pie spice in a medium bowl; set aside.
4.
Add the brown and granulated sugars to the mixing bowl with the browned butter and beat with an electric mixer on medium speed for about 1 minute until creamy. Add the egg and vanilla, and mix on low just until combined.
5.
Add the dry ingredients to the butter mixture and mix until combined. Mix in the oats and grated apple. Fold in the apple chips with a rubber spatula.
6.
Scoop the dough into balls, about 1 1/2 tablespoons in size, onto two parchment lined baking sheets and press gently with the bottom of a glass. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the edges are golden brown. Cool for 5 minutes on the sheet tray, before transferring to a wire cooling rack to cool completely.
7.
For the caramel icing: Whisk together the powdered sugar, apple juice, and caramel sauce. Using a spoon, drizzle the cookies generously with the icing and top with the chopped apple chips. Allow the glaze to set before serving, about 1 hour (at room temperature).
8.
Store in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 3 days.
Your email address will not be published.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Comment
Thank you for enquiring about Rogers Foods products. The decision to carry certain products is made by the grocery store not Rogers Foods. If the product you are looking for is not on the shelf ask the store manager for assistance. The store may have the ability to order the item in for you. Please also consider using the grocer’s online website.
Click on your Province.
Click on your preferred retailer.
Once you are at the retailer site, you can further define your city.
Search in the search box for your favourite Rogers Product to see if the retailer has it listed. Sometimes, your neighbourhood retailer may not carry the brand you are searching for, and you must locate it elsewhere.
Proudly Milling The Highest Quality Flour and Cereal Products For All Your Professional Bakery Needs.
Disclaimer / Rogers Foods ©  2021  |   All Rights Reserved  |
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies.
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
Cookie
Duration
Description
cookielawinfo-checbox-analytics
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".
cookielawinfo-checbox-functional
11 months
The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".
cookielawinfo-checbox-others
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".
viewed_cookie_policy
11 months
The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
