Sportsbook Promos
WNBA Playoffs Liberty vs Aces Pick and Odds | October 6, 2024
wnba
After a dominating win in Game 3, the Aces will look to force a Game 5 today vs the Liberty. Las Vegas won the last game by a score of 95-81 on Friday night in front of the home crowd. They will look to use home court advantage again.
The Aces and Liberty really matched up evenly statistically. Las Vegas shot much better and scored 14 more points in the paint, which were the difference maker. Otherwise, shooting from 3-point range, rebounds, assists and steals – they practically mirrored each other.
A’ja Wilson led the way for the Aces with 19 points and 14 rebounds. Jackie Young put up 24 points and Kelsey Plum had 20 points. Chelesea Gray came alive with 10 points and a big 7 assists., which led the team.
They will need to do the same as Game 3 and force the Liberty into bad shots. Another big key was shutting down Sabrina Ionescu. She has been dominating the playoffs, but was held to only 4 points, 5 assists and 5 rebounds.
New York will look to make adjustments to close out the series
Liberty players Jonquel Jones and Betnijah Laney-Hamilton embrace after a foul call.
New York just couldn’t get the baskets to fall last game. As mentioned before, Sabrina was nowhere to be found offensively, totaling only 4 points. This hurt the Liberty offense as she has been their best player.
Breanna Stewart hasn’t been the force that she can be after putting up 34 points. This team will need a big game out of her today to have a chance to close this series out.
Containing A’ja Wilson was what this team was doing best and last game, they let her eat. Keeping her to 15 points or less with less than 10 rebounds is a key to winning vs the Aces. The Liberty showed they can do it before, so it’s time to do it again.
New York Liberty vs Las Vegas Aces Betting Odds and Game Information
Liberty vs Aces Betting Odds
Spread
Moneyline
Over 166 (-110)
Under 166 (-110)
Venue: Michelob ULTRA Arena, Paradise, NV
Date: Sunday October 6, 2024
Tip Off: 3pm EST
New York Liberty vs Las Vegas Aces Picks and Predictions
Aces center A’ja Wilson drives to the hoop while guarded by Liberty center Jonquel Jones.
I have to take my girls on the bounce back. If they can keep this game close, they have every chance to win this game. This would also be huge for them to advance to the finals and send the Aces packing on their home court.
Breanna Stewart needs to put up at least 25 points in this game. Jonquel Jones will need to have a double double, causing problems for Wilson down low. And, of course, the biggest factor – Ionescu having a better game.
Shooting better will be key for the Liberty. They can’t let the Aces force them into bad shots. Moving the ball quickly will give them the chances they need. New York will also need Ionescu to come alive from 3.
I like Sabrina to get 4+ 3-pointers made for +152. Again, these will be necessary for the Liberty to win. I also like Breanna Stewart for over 20.5 points at -120. She has missed her last 2 games after a 34 point game.
Interested in More Content?
Follow me on X @_NZeee for more plays and show updates!
Make sure you are following Betting News on X and Twitch to keep up with everything we have going on! Turn those notis on!
Also, tune in to one of our many streams during the week! You’ll have some fun and leave with winners!
Bonus & Benefits 50% up to $1,000 Bonus Details »
Bonus & Benefits Up To $1,000 Sign-Up Bonus Bonus Details »
Bonus & Benefits 50% up to $750 Bonus Details »
Bonus & Benefits 125% Deposit Bonus or $25 Free Bet Bonus Details »
We really are All About the Game!
Nick Zanghi
Nick Zanghi is an avid hockey fan who loves to bet on the NHL Props. He has also found a liking for the WNBA. Born and raised on LI, NZ is a lifelong Islanders #isles fan and a new NY Liberty fan #LIGHTITUPNYL. When not watching or attending sporting events, he enjoys grilling and time with his wife and kids. Follow NZ on X @_NZeee for more sports betting content.
Nick Zanghi is an avid hockey fan who loves to bet on the NHL Props. He has also found a liking for the WNBA. Born and raised on LI, NZ is a lifelong Islanders #isles fan and a new NY Liberty fan #LIGHTITUPNYL. When not watching or attending sporting events, he enjoys grilling and time with his wife and kids. Follow NZ on X @_NZeee for more sports betting content.
This site contains commercial content. We may be compensated for the links provided on this page. The content on this page is for informational purposes only. Betting News makes no representation or warranty as to the accuracy of the information given or the outcome of any game or event.
More WNBA News on Betting News
WNBA Betting News
WNBA Betting News
Subscribe
Loading...
Subscribe
Loading...
Signup for our Weekly Newsletter
Expert FREE Picks Every Saturday
Subscribe
Loading...
Subscribe
Loading...
🙏🏼 You have successfully joined The Weekender.
Betting News is your trusted source for betting picks and up to date news and stats on the NFL, MLB, NHL and many other sports.
We analyze every game to help you find the best bets and best odds to wager on today’s games.
We also review online gambling websites to help you find the best sportsbooks and casino sites to play at.
We are Here to Help You Make Informed Betting Decisions and help players have more fun and more wins when gambling online.
Copyright © 2019 - 2024 Betting News All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 2019 - 2024 Betting News All Rights Reserved.
Content reserved for readers of 18+ years of age or legal majority in their jurisdiction. Responsible Gaming.
