Search results cleared
Include archived pages
Most of the content here is written in English. Translate your search to find more content?
Yes, always
Flu, COVID, and Respiratory Illness Season
What you need to know for a healthy fall and winter season without getting sick from flu, COVID-19, RSV and other winter germs.
Page updated on October 4, 2024 at 11:09 AM
Prepare for the Fall and Winter Seasons
Fall is here, and so is respiratory illness season. Risk less by practicing healthy habits and getting this season's vaccines, so you can do more!
Free Flu Shots @ Minnie Howard!
Alexandria Health Department will offer 500 free flu shots on Saturday, October 26 from 12-4 p.m. The free flu shot clinic will take place at Minnie Howard Campus at 3801 W Braddock Rd, Alexandria, VA 22302.
No ID or appointments are required. No COVID-19 or high-dose flu shots will be available.  No registration is required, but you can speed up your visit by pre-entering your information in our portal .
The information below summarizes vaccine recommendations this season:
Who Should Get It?
Flu (Influenza)
Get it in October for best protection.
COVID-19
Everyone 6 months and older
Get it September-October for best protection.  If you’ve recently had COVID, wait 3 months.
RSV for Older Adults
Everyone 75+, People 60-74 with health conditions
This is not an annual vaccine. If you didn’t get an RSV vaccine last year get one by early fall, before RSV starts to spread.
RSV for Babies
Pregnant people 32-36 weeks into their pregnancy.
Immunizations are available for children 8 months and under if mother did not get RSV vaccine at least 2 weeks before giving birth as well as children 8-19 months of age if they have certain risk factors.
Only when RSV surges: September-January for pregnant people. October –March for children.
Where should you get these shots?
Visit vaccines.gov to enter your zip code and find a pharmacy near you. Your provider's office may also have vaccines. Always ask about costs and eligibility when you schedule appointments.
If you don't have insurance, call AHD at 703.746.4988 for more information on where you can get a vaccine.
Healthy Habits
Vaccines are just one way to keep yourself and others feeling healthy. You can stop the spread of germs!
Regularly wash your hands. Use sanitizer if you can’t wash with soap and water.
Cover your coughs and sneezes. If you use a tissue, throw it away immediately, then wash your hands.
Consider your health and CDC respiratory virus guidance when making plans to be around other people. You can still mask!
Encourage your family, friends, and neighbors to regularly practice safety.
If You Get Sick
Stay Home
If you think you’re sick, stay home and take a test to figure out your next steps. Keep your loved ones and children home if they are sick.
Free and low cost COVID-19 tests are still available.
If you have underlying health conditions, let your doctor know you are sick. Your doctor may ask you to take a COVID test or a test for another virus to determine what you have and what to do next.
Get Tested
Treatments are available to help you feel better and prevent severe illness.
Your doctor may prescribe antiviral treatments for illness due to COVID-19 and the flu if:
You seek treatment early.
Your doctor is concerned that you have a high risk for severe illness.
If you need help finding treatment, call AHD at 703.746.4988.
Parent's Corner
Young children have a higher risk of severe illness if they are infected with a respiratory illness. Help kids have a healthy, fun fall with the following steps:
Make an immunization plan with your child's doctor. Flu and COVID-19 vaccines are available for children 6 months and older. An immunization for RSV is available for babies and some children.
Wondering if your child is up-to-date?  Check out the CDC recommendations for children and adolescents.
Make vaccine visits less stressful with these tips from the CDC.
Teach children how to wash hands and cover their coughs and sneezes. Be a healthy role model!
If your child gets sick, keep them home! Check in with your child's doctor about treatment and ways to feel better like rest and over-the-counter medicine..
Stay Informed - and Spread the Word
Hold on, redirecting...
