More
No flu or COVID-19 vaccines for medical clinics as Alberta's fall immunization launch nears | CBC News Loaded
No flu or COVID-19 vaccines for medical clinics as Alberta's fall immunization launch nears
Family doctors and nurse practitioners have been told they will not be receiving deliveries of flu or COVID-19 vaccines in time for the fall immunization program launch later this month and it is unclear if they will get any at all.
Patients to be directed to AHS clinics and pharmacies for publicly funded vaccines
Posted: Oct 04, 2024 1:49 PM EDT | Last Updated: October 4
In a recent memo from Alberta Health, physicians and nurse practitioners were told they would not be able to access key vaccines this fall. (LookerStudio/Shutterstock)
Social Sharing
Family doctors and nurse practitioners have been told they will not be receiving deliveries of flu or COVID-19 vaccines in time for the fall immunization program launch later this month. And it is unclear if they will get any at all.
In addition to AHS public health clinics and pharmacies, community medical clinics can administer publicly funded vaccines, including those that protect against COVID and influenza.
But shipments of vaccines — to these clinics — have stopped,  jeopardizing their participation in the fall immunization campaign.
"It's extremely disappointing to hear, from government, that community practices are not going to be able to receive any vaccines for this flu season," said Dr. Ernst Greyvenstein, a family doctor in Calgary.
In a recent memo from Alberta Health, physicians and nurse practitioners were told they would not be able to access key vaccines this fall.
The memo, obtained by CBC News, said the distribution of provincially funded vaccines to medical and nurse practitioner clinics was "temporarily paused" in April when a contract with the distribution company expired.
"At this time, Alberta Health has not been successful in contracting a distributor to ship vaccines to community medical and nurse practitioner clinics," it stated.
It went on to say a recent expression of interest had closed and no submissions were received.
"As a result, a vendor for vaccine distribution will not be in place by October 15 for the start of the influenza and COVID vaccine program."
Health-care providers are being asked to direct Albertans to get their immunizations at AHS public health clinics and pharmacies.
The distribution problem impacts a number of publicly funded vaccines, including the shot that protects against pertussis (whooping cough) tetanus and diptheria (Tdap).
Greyvenstein — an Alberta Medical Association director who played a key role in advocating for the administration of COVID vaccines by family physician — said staff at his clinic are trained and ready to go.
"The impact of this is far-reaching for patients. Approximately 300,000 patients, plus, receive their vaccines in community practices. Our physicians and community practices have fought very hard to receive vaccines in our practices," he said.
Vaccine uptake
Dr. Tessa Penrod works as a family physician in Beaumont. (Tessa Penrod)
This comes at a time when Alberta's vaccination rates are slumping.
Last year, Alberta had its lowest influenza vaccination rate in more than a decade, with 24.2 per cent of Albertans rolling up their sleeves for the flu shot. Just 16.9 per cent received a COVID-19 vaccine.
"I'm always unhappy with how low our usual vaccine uptake is and I'm worried that this will actually make things even that much worse," said Dr. Tessa Penrod, a family physician practising in Beaumont.
"It's pretty problematic. We already have quite a few patients calling in asking to book their flu shots."
Her team vaccinates hundreds of patients a year, holding flu immunization clinics and offering shots to patients who are being seen for other reasons.
"There will be a whole subset of patients who are already here — who could have their flu shot and maybe might be open to it — who probably will not seek that flu shot elsewhere."
Whooping cough concerns
And her worries extend beyond the fall immunization campaign.
Penrod hasn't been able to access other key publicly funded vaccines for several months, including the pertussis shot (Tdap).
That means pregnant patients, for whom the the vaccine is recommended, have to go elsewhere.
"[Whooping cough] is actually a very, very dangerous illness for infants. So that gives those babies a little bit of passive immunity from their mom until they can get their own shots," she said.
"Routinely in my office I would be vaccinating those pregnant people just because they're coming for their prenatal [appointment] anyway. So I haven't been able to do that. I'm having to send people away a lot."
Even people who come in injured and needing stitches have to be sent elsewhere if their tetanus shot is not up to date, she said.
CBC News reached out to Accuristix, the company that had been contracted to distribute the vaccines. In an email, the company said Alberta Health elected not to renew its contract.
"Our contract was not renewed, but we'd be pleased to help AHS with the physician distribution and hope to hear from them," said Dean Berg, president of the health-care logistics company.
A spokesperson for Alberta Health said the contract was not renewed because its term had expired.
"While we address this distribution disruption, Albertans can still access immunization services at AHS public health clinics and pharmacies," the spokesperson said in an email.
"We are actively exploring options to distribute vaccines from our provincial depot to community medical clinics."
According to Alberta Health, more than 1,700 Alberta pharmacies and AHS public health clinics will continue to provide immunizations.
"Community-based physician clinics, which administer about 5 per cent of vaccines, will be updated once the new distribution process is implemented."
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Reporter
Jennifer Lee is a CBC News reporter based in Calgary. She worked at CBC Toronto, Saskatoon and Regina before landing in Calgary in 2002. If you have a health or human interest story to share, let her know.  Jennifer.Lee@cbc.ca
Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636
Accessibility
It is a priority for CBC to create products that are accessible to all in Canada including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges.
Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem .
