Forgot Your Password
Please enter your email address and we will send you a link to reset your password.
Please wait ...
First name
Last name
Apartments
Investment Property
By registering for an account, you accept the Boston Pads terms of use and privacy policy .*
You agree that BostonPads, Jacob Realty, NextGen Realty, Boardwalk Properties, Douglas Paul Real Estate, landlords, and property managers may call or text you about any inquiries you submit through our services, which may involve use of automated means and prerecorded/artificial voices. You do not need to consent as a condition of creating an account on BostonPads.com, renting any property, or buying any other goods or services. Message/data rates may apply.
Register
Property Owner Portal
Log into the Property Owner Portal or learn more about renting your properties with Boston Pads
Log In
Learn more
Advertise Your Property
Log into your Ad Portal Dashboard or learn more about marketing your property with Boston Pads
Location filter
Property Description
OFF MARKET MAY NO LONGER BE AVAILABLE The Fenway neighborhood is one of the iconic neighborhoods of Boston. Easily accessible from the orange and green MBTA lines, it is characterized by brownstone townhomes, brick walk-ups, and plenty of small businesses. In Fenway you will find plenty of fine stores and great schools such as: Northeastern University, Wentworth Institute of Technology, Berklee College of Music, Mass College of Art and design and Harvard Medical School. Fenway is also home to the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum and the Museum of Fine Arts, two world renowned museums with iconic collections. Other points of interest in the Fenway area are the iconic Citgo sign in Kenmore square, plenty of sports bars, and of course, Fenway park, home of the Boston Red Sox. Transportation Options Ipswich St @ Boylston St Bus Stop 0.1 mi (2 min away) Ipswich St @ Boylston St Bus Stop 0.1 mi (3 min away) Ipswich St @ Charlesgate E Bus Stop 0.2 mi (4 min away) Ipswich St @ Lansdowne St Bus Stop 0.1 mi (2 min away)
Nearby Places Boston Arts Academy-Fenway High School Library Jillian's Library And Boston Symphony Education R Loretta's Last Call Tequila Rain
School
0.2mi
Berklee College of Music - Piano Percussion (Berklee College of Music)
Music School, Grades:
0.19mi
McDonald's
0.43mi
FoMu
Restaurant
0.28mi
UNI
0.3mi
Deuxave
Thai Restaurant
Fire Station
Music Venue
Theatre
0.2mi
0.35mi
Fitness Centre
0.46mi
Hairdresser
0.35mi
Bank
0.46mi
0.1mi
Sunoco
0.15mi
Library
0.3mi
Library
0.32mi
Library
0.33mi
Library
0.36mi
The Mary Baker Eddy Library for the Betterment of Humanity
Library
0.4mi
Ophthalmology
0.34mi
0.35mi
Dentist, Surgery, Orthodontics
55
0.04mi
19
60
65
8
0.23mi
19
60
65
8
0.27mi
19
60
65
8
9
0.39mi
1
0.41mi
Rent Calculator
How much do you (or your cosigner) earn each year before taxes?
Annual Income:
High Range
SMS Alerts
Text me more listings like this!
*You agree to the Boston Pads Terms of Use & Privacy Policy . By choosing to contact a property, you also agree that BostonPads, Jacob Realty, NextGen Realty, Boardwalk Properties, Douglas Paul Real Estate, landlords, and property managers may call or text you about any inquiries you submit through our services, which may involve use of automated means and prerecorded/artificial voices. You don't need to consent as a condition of renting any property, or buying any other goods or services. Message/data rates may apply.
Hidden
Real Time Verified Listing
Apartment for Rent, Available Now at Fenway/Kenmore, Boston, MA, added 1 hour ago, $2,600 per month, 1 Bed, 1 Bath, , Heat & HW Included,  Dishwasher, , , ,  Flexible Move-In Date
Real Time Verified Listing
Apartment for Rent, Available Now at Fenway/Kenmore, Boston, MA, added 1 hour ago, $2,600 per month, Studio, 1 Bath, , Heat & HW Included,  Dishwasher, Cat Friendly, Laundry, ,  Flexible Move-In Date
Real Time Verified Listing
Apartment for Rent, Available Now at Fenway/Kenmore, Boston, MA, added 1 hour ago, $2,595 per month, 1 Bed, 1 Bath, , Heat & HW Included,  Dishwasher, , Laundry, ,  Flexible Move-In Date
Apartment for Rent, Available 11-01-2024 at Fenway/Kenmore, Boston, MA, added 1 hour ago, $2,500 per month, 1 Bed, 1 Bath, , ,  Dishwasher, , , ,
