Sign up to follow your favorites on all your devices.
Sign up to follow your favorites on all your devices.
SD Starting Pitcher #44
Padres general manager A.J. Preller announced that RHP Joe Musgrove will have Tommy John surgery.
What a blow. The Padres have been one of if not the hottest team in baseball since the start of June, but losing Musgrove for essentially the entirety of their playoff run is certainly a bump in the road for San Diego. For Musgrove himself, the timing as well as the injury itself is brutal. While Preller didn’t provide a timeline, Musgrove won’t pitch at all in 2025.
Injury
Orioles OF prospect Jake Cunningham went 1-for-4 with a two-run home run in AFL action on Sunday.
The home run was his second of the AFL season and was a 411-foot shot that left the bat at 110.5 mph. The 22-year-old is also up to six RBI so far. Cunningham was a fifth-round pick out of UNC Charlotte after playing through an ankle injury for much of his junior season. He also had a quadriceps injury that kept him out for most of the first month of the season at Single-A Delmarva and then batted just .175/.301/.265 with 62 strikeouts in 52 games after coming back. However, he enjoyed a strong end of the season and was promoted to High-A before keeping his hot streak alive in the AFL so far.
Link copied to clipboard!
DET Starting Pitcher #18
Tigers president Scott Harris said the team “absolutely” sees a place for RHP Kenta Maeda on the roster in 2025.
The team has allegedly laid out some changes they would like Maeda to make in the offseason, presumably to help ensure better arm health, and that could give him a better chance of providing value to the team in 2025. The Tigers have plenty of options for the starting rotation next year with Tarik Skubal, Reese Olson, Casey Mize, Matt Manning, Keider Montero, and Jackson Jobe. It appears that Maeda will at least have a chance to claim one of those spots with a good spring training.
DET Shortstop #28
Tigers president Scott Harris said the team expects Javier Báez “to be part of workouts in spring training following hip surgery.”
Harris stated that the team still sees a role for Báez in 2025, “particularly if surgery helps him move more like his younger form.” Neither Harris nor manager A.J. Hinch would commit to that role for Báez being a starting role. The Tigers got solid production from rookie Trey Sweeney after Báez went down, so the two would likely battle for the starting shortstop job in spring, but with Colt Keith also locked into the starting second base job, there may not be a starting opportunity for Báez in 2025.
Related
NYY Starting Pitcher #0
Yankees added RHP Marcus Stroman to the roster for the ALCS against the Guardians.
The Yankees only went with 11 pitchers for the ALDS, but they will add Stroman back as another starting pitcher option for a best-of-seven series. Outfielder Duke Ellis will be left off the roster to make room for Stroman.
Related
NYY First Baseman #48
Yankees added 1B Anthony Rizzo to the roster for the ALCS against the Guardians.
Rizzo was held out of the ALDS after fracturing two fingers in the final week of the season. The veteran struggled again in 2024, slashing .228/.301/.355 in 92 games; however, he provides defensive value at the position and the Yankees haven’t gotten much from their other options either. Ben Rice will be left off the ALCS in a corresponding move.
Related
INT Starting Pitcher
Lotte Mariners GM Matsumoto said that he and star pitcher Roki Sasaki will “be talking a lot of things over” this offseason.
Matsumoto mentioned that the team and Sasaki have repeatedly talked about Sasaki potentially being posted for MLB teams this offseason. “We have been talking about it every year since he joined the team.” The 22-year-old Sasaki is considered one of the most gifted pitchers in the world and would set off a bidding war similar to what we saw for Yoshinobu Yamamoto last offseason. However, even though there is a chance that Sasaki will be posted for MLB teams this offseason, it’s not a given. “We talk about it every year,” said Matsumoto. “He has a dream. I want to move forward by taking one thing at a time.”
NYM Left Fielder #9
The Athletic’s Tim Britton reports that Brandon Nimmo has been playing through plantar fasciitis which he “irritated” in the ALDS against the Phillies.
Nimmo was visibly limping during Game 1 of the ALCS and now we know why. “Right now it hurts pretty good,” Nimmo said. “The second-to-last game against Philadelphia, I did something on the field and made it quite a bit worse. … When it gets inflamed and flares up, it’s a harder thing to calm down.” The 31-year-old said the injury doesn’t bother him when he plays the field or when he swings but only when he’s running. Still, he has no plans to rest. “It’s the NLCS,” he said. “You do whatever you can in order to get out there and help in any way you can.”
CLE Second Baseman #1
Guardians INF/OF Angel Martínez has been left off the roster for the ALCS.
Martínez was a late addition to the ALDS after Tyler Freeman hurt his oblique. The 22-year-old had one plate appearance in the series against the Tigers but was carried primarily for defensive versatility off the bench. Instead, the Guardians will carry Pedro Avila as another key reliever in the bullpen.
Transaction
Guardians added RHP Pedro Avila to the roster for the ALCS.
The Guardians will not carry Angel Martinez, which means they will now go with 13 pitchers and 13 position players. It makes some sense considering how much they had to rely on the bullpen in the ALDS against the Tigers. Avila struggled in eight innings to start the season with the Padres, but he has been solid in 74 2/3 innings for the Guardians (50 appearances), posting a 3.25 ERA, 1.31 WHIP, and 73:30 K:BB ratio. He will give the Guardians another solid option out of the bullpen this series.
Related
LAD Starting Pitcher #0
Jack Flaherty blanked the Mets for seven innings Sunday in the Dodgers’ 9-0 victory in Game 1 of the NLCS.
Flaherty didn’t excel in his final three regular-season starts or in his loss to the Padres a week ago, but he cruised tonight, even if he did give up nine hard-hit balls. He retired the first nine and the final eight batters he faced. The Mets’ lone real threat should have materialized in the fifth, but after collecting the team’s first hit of the game, Jesse Winker made a huge baserunning blunder on a second consecutive hit off the bat of Jose Iglesias, getting himself thrown out at third with no outs and the Mets down 6-0. Flaherty never allowed another baserunner afterwards. Game 2 will come Tuesday. Sean Manaea is starting for the Mets, while the Dodgers will likely go with a bullpen game after Flaherty’s long outing tonight.
Recap
A Division of NBCUniversal .
DISCLAIMER: This site and the products offered are for entertainment purposes only, and there is no gambling offered on this site. This service is intended for adult audiences. No guarantees are made for any specific outcome. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, please call 1-800-GAMBLER. PointsBet is our Official Sports Betting Partner and we may receive compensation if you place a bet on PointsBet for the first time after clicking our links.
Ⓒ 2024 NBC Universal
