Share this...
A good sale to Colombo
Sign up for our Real Time Newsletter to receive economy class deals for your city about an hour before they are even posted on our website and social media channels - all for about a nickel a day.
Interested in Business Class, First Class or Premium Economy deals? Signup for our Premium Newsletter for about a quarter a day.
Central Business District, Colombo, Sri Lanka – Photo: Andrew from Sydney via Flickr , used under Creative Commons License (By 2.0)
Sample Travel Date:
November 20th – 27th
This is just ONE SAMPLE travel date, for more availability, please follow the “Fare Availability” and “How to Search for Availability” instructions below
Fare Availability:
Valid for travel until late November or late January 2025 – early May 2025. Availability is limited. Must purchase at least 3 days in advance of departure
Please note that while this fare is valid at time of posting, if this post is more than two days old, the fare is likely gone.
How to Search for Availability:
This is just to search for availability. To buy your tickets, scroll down to “How to Buy” section of this post
Origin: BOS
Extension Codes: -overnight
(Click on Advanced Codes link to enable advanced routing code input)
Select “See calendar of lowest fares”
Duration “3-10” (This is just a sample, you can use any 7 day date range like 3-10, 7-14 etc)
The Matrix Airfare Search by ITA Software search page should be like below when all values are inputted
You cannot buy tickets using Matrix Airfare Search by ITA Software. To buy, follow our instructions in the “How to Buy” section below.
Fare Class:
Stopover:
Mileage:
Cathay Pacific is an Alaska Air partner. Mileage earning with Alaska Air is as follows:
Miles Flown: 20,892 miles or 3.9 cents per mile
Elite Qualifying Miles: 5,223 miles
Redeemable Miles: 5,223 miles
Cathay Pacific is also an American partner. However, this fare earns ZERO miles with American.
How to Buy:
Support us by using our Priceline link to book with dates found on Matrix Airfare Search by ITA Software
Accommodations
TripAdvisor - One of the leading hotel meta-search engines. Find the lowest hotel prices from 200+ sites.
Car Rentals
Rental Cars - One of the world’s leading car rental agencies. Includes all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Budget, Dollar, Enterprise etc.
Activities and Tours
Viator – The world's largest marketplace for destination activities and tours
Background Information:
Visa: US Citizens – Visa or Electronic Travel Authorization required prior to arrival. Other nationals, check the TIMATIC Visa Database
Currency: Sri Lankan Rupee (LKR). $1USD = 292 LKR
Tips for saving when using credit cards at international destinations:
* The Flight Deal will receive a commission if you use the Priceline, accommodation, car rental, activities, or travel insurance affiliate links to make a booking or apply and is approved for a credit card using our link above. Thank you for your continuing support.
The Flight Deal does not sell travel products or services. We provide  you with information about third-party travel suppliers’ offers, and  link you to their sites. The information posted by The Flight Deal is  valid at the time of publication. However, we have no control over the  suppliers, and we therefore do not warrant or guarantee that their  offers will not change or become unavailable. Nor are we responsible for  their products, services or site content. Please see their sites for  their most up-to-date offer information and all applicable terms and  conditions.
Share this...
Stay Informed on the Latest Deals
Sign up to receive The Flight Deal Daily DealsLetter, to stay up to date with the latest and greatest flight deals available.
Email
Δ
