Our Hurricane Helene Response
Backed by your support, BeLoved Asheville is dedicating every resource to those most affected by this disaster. Our immediate focus has been on critical necessities like food, water, and healthcare for survival and stability. As winter looms, we are securing warm and safe housing for the displaced. Looking further ahead, recovery from the vast destruction will be a large-scale investment over several years. We believe that we can unite to rebuild a community that embodies home, health, equity, and opportunity for all.
After Helene
With your support, BeLoved Asheville is providing essential aid and shelter, while we plot a course for ongoing cleanup long-term housing solutions, and inclusive growth within the community.
Connecting Communities through
Action and Mutual Support​
We believe in the power of community. We are dedicated to creating a more equitable and inclusive society through innovative solutions and ground-up leadership.
We are bringing people together from all walks of life to create home, healthy, equity, and opportunity for all in our mountain home.
We strengthen the fabric of our community by celebrating and struggling alongside our friends and neighbors, moving towards solutions that build upon the assets we see all around us.
We invite you to take a deeper look and join us!
Creating Home, Health, Equity and Opportunity for All
We are committed to improving the well-being and quality of life for individuals, families, and communities through our focus areas of Home, Health, Equity, and Opportunity.
Our Focus Areas are:
Home
We are dedicated to providing people with the security and comfort of a home. Amidst the housing crisis, we are constructing homes meant to endure for generations, fostering a sense of belonging and purpose within communities.
Health
We believe in supporting the health and wellbeing of people and the full community in a holistic way. BeLoved’s projects are designed to create healthy people and healthy places. We work to improve healthcare access and affordability, create healthy food access, and address root causes of health inequities.
Equity
Equity is at the heart of BeLoved. We work to dismantle systemic racism and other forms of oppression, promote racial, educational and economic equity and support impacted communities in tapping into their power to create their own solutions and be the change.
Opportunity
We believe that everyone should have the opportunity to pursue their hopes and dreams and to have what they need to thrive. We are working to close the opportunity gaps created by systemic racism and poverty in a myriad of ways.
Impacts
Home
2,792
volunteers and 102 partners helped to build our national model solution to the housing crisis
31 Million
pounds of food shared, supporting tens of thousands of people in our community
Equity
44,209
community members responded to our calls to action to advance racial equity on multiple fronts
To bring together Black, Indigenous, Latinx, People of Color (BIPOC) and people of low wealth to create a more just and equitable society. Whether you are an advocate, activist, artist, or ally, we invite you to join us on this important journey. Together, we can create a brighter future for all in our mountain home through the power of compassion, community, creativity, and equity.
BeLoved Asheville is a trusted, grassroots, and equity-focused organization. With over fifteen years of experience in movement building and advocacy for human rights, the organization’s success is credited to the ability to build relationships, create visible change, and generate community-led momentum for collective action.
Our Vision
To cultivate a caring community where every individual, regardless of race, ethnicity, or socioeconomic status, experiences the essence of belonging, wellness, fairness, and potential.
Our Value
Our value lies in championing  compassion, collective action and inclusivity to establish tangible change and resilience within our community.
Our Purpose
To foster a sense of identity rooted in our shared humanity, nurturing a deep understanding of interconnectedness and a commitment to uplifting those facing adversity. To be advancing the pillars of Home, Health, Equity, and Opportunity through various initiatives including street outreach, thrift store, pantries, kitchens, food sharing, crisis response, and inclusivity.
Stay Updated with Us
Rebuilding Hope After Hurricane Helene
With your support, BeLoved Asheville is providing essential aid and shelter while we plot a course for ongoing cleanup, long-term housing solutions, and inclusive growth within the community.
October 5, 2024
Donation Hub Renovation
What is now an empty warehouse of an old transmission shop will soon become a community hub – powered by solar.
June 23, 2024
Beloved Village
The first of what we hope to be many BeLoved Villages is set to be completed by end of September 2024. Learn More
June 22, 2024
32 Old Charlotte Hwy
Host a drive at your faith community, neighborhood, place of business/workplace, or civic group or by purchasing school supplies and dropping them off at our donation center. You can make a lasting difference.
Food Distribution
10:30 am
32 Old Charlotte Hwy
Join us on Mondays as we share thousands of pounds of food with the community! We believe that everyone deserves fresh, healthy food without limitations! All are welcome and no ID is required. Volunteers welcome!
Diaper Collection
32 Old Charlotte Hwy
We need diapers sizes Newborn – Pullups and baby wipes. You can donate diapers Tuesday – Saturday 11am – 1pm @ 32 Old Charlotte Hwy. Other ways to support: Start a diaper drive online with your workplace, neighborhood group, faith community, school group, club, etc.
FUNDS (to support re-homing Hurricane survivors and repairing homes)
Homes and Land for donation or purchase to move Hurricane victims who lost their homes
Starlink Satellite systems
Commercial refrigerators and freezers
