(403) 250-9495 acds@acds.ca
About the Impact+ Webinars
The Impact+ webinars build on the learning and the discussions initiated at our preceding Impact conferences. Webinar sessions are thoughtfully curated for professionals in the Community Disability Services sector. They aim to empower participants with vital knowledge and insights to excel in their current roles and provide valuable guidance for those aspiring to advance to leadership positions.
Join us from October 21 to 25, 2024 for the next set of Impact+ webinars.
Sessions
Hear from leaders as they discuss real-world challenges faced during emergencies and share strategies for navigating evacuation impacts on individuals, staff, and the community.
Presented by: Katie MacMillan, Kello Inclusive
Join Katie MacMillan as she explores ableism, accessibility, and allyship through her experiences as a parent, educator, and representative of disabled talent.
Presented by: Leah Jeffery, Bethesda Services
Join Leah Jeffery for an insightful session on trauma-informed care for individuals with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (IDD), exploring the impact of trauma and offering practical strategies for creating supportive environments.
Wednesday, October 23, 2024: 2:30 pm – 4 pm
Discover how strategic Learning and Development initiatives can drive continuous learning, workforce diversity, and leadership growth within organizations.
Thursday, October 24, 2024: 10 am – 11:30 pm
Presented by: Ryan Geake, Calgary Scope Society
Join Ryan Geake for a research-based journey into the habits of happiness, and learn how elevating your own happiness can positively influence those you support.
Presented by: Kate Ashton, and Janyce Rideout,  Salopek & Associates
Learn the latest strategies in recruitment and retention within the Disability Services sector, and how to attract and retain top talent to strengthen your workforce.
Presented by: Diane Wark & Nathan Flaig, Centre for Sexuality
Dive deeper into the crucial work of providing sexual healthcare and support to adults with developmental disabilities, building on key themes from the conference.
Pricing
We recognize that this is currently a challenging time for service providers with reductions to funding for training. Therefore, we have worked to maintain a low registration fee for each of the sessions.
ACDS Members: $20 per session
Non-Members: $30 per session
Past Webinars
2023 Webinars
From October 16 to October 20, 2023, ACDS hosted the inaugural Impact+ webinar series covering topics focused on "Supporting Frontline Workers and Emerging Leaders" in community disability services.
Sessions
Rich Lives and Safe Service, presented by Lesli Peddie and Ken Hatch of the Calgary Scope Society
A Trauma-Informed Approach in Harm Reduction, presented by Shannon Harris of Blue Heron Support Services Association
Creating an Inclusive Workplace by Implementing Supportive Workforce Strategies, presented by Vincent Wells, Indigenous Diversity & Engagement Consultant
Put Your Oxygen Mask on First: A Self Care Reminder, presented by Deena Martin Ph.D. (Spec. Ed), R. Psych
Neurodiversity in Action: Empowering Frontline Warriors and Emerging Leaders, presented by Sarah Taylor, Project Manager, Spectrum Advantage
ACDS Head Office
Suite 220 - 200 Rivercrest Drive SE, Calgary, AB T2C 2X5
Contact Information
P. (403) 250-9495 F. (403) 291-9864 E. acds@acds.ca
