{0}-MINUTE READ
July 23, 2024
In brief
Continuous change is the new reality—and navigating it is essential to activating strategy and moving organizations forward.
The age of generative AI heralds unprecedented shifts in market dynamics, technology and workforce expectations.
This research creates a new blueprint for excellence in continuous change.
80%
of organizations have change as part of their long-term vision.
95%
of organizations have undergone 2+ transformations in the past three years.
96%
of C-suite leaders are dedicating more than 5% of revenue to change projects in the next three years.
100%
30%
We call it the Change Capability Quotient.
Organizations can transform into dynamic, resilient entities capable of outperforming expectations and achieving meaningful results, which are measurably:
Higher
More likely to report cost savings and improved financial performance, with annual revenue growth up to 5 percentage points higher on average than other organizations.
70%
Better
Better experiences that meet employees’ needs, unlock their potential and leave them 2x more likely to feel Net Better Off.
1.5x
Faster
Combining innovative emerging practices with solid foundations leads to faster outcomes.
80%
more likely to achieve successful transformation on schedule.
The best practices to effectively navigate and measure change are not always well understood, nor are they consistently applied.
We have a new blueprint for innovation and growth in continuous change which includes the consistent application of proven practices, as well as more innovative practices now possible through the use of technology.
They’re also more likely to join the Reinventors —the elite 9% of organizations that not only transform, but consistently outperform.
Leaders who integrate change into their culture, aligning it with core purposes and values, do not just manage change – they inspire and facilitate it.
Talking change on the Built for Change podcast
Change Reinvented co-author Karalee Close describes how our blueprint for excellence in continuous change can lead to meaningful success.
Realizing the true power of the Change Capability Quotient lies in putting a solid foundation in place along with the innovative capabilities needed to catalyze higher performance. The combination of capabilities across Foundations and Innovations truly unlocks the potential of continuous change.
Foundations
These capabilities are known to drive success but are often not consistently applied.
1
Purpose
Linking change to purpose and using 2-way communication to encourage engagement and commitment.
Value
Clearly defining value and expectations, while aligning investment to these goals.
Experience
Creating new experiences to inspire people and create a positive environment for continuous learning and improvement.
Innovations
These capabilities are areas of new thinking and practice, focusing on turning insights into action.
1
Behavioral science
Personalizing change using behavioral science to discover and promote the things that truly shift behavior.
Data
Using data and AI to drive insights and better understand the impact across the business so leaders can adapt their approach to change.
Influencers
Growing networks of influencers from both internal and external sources, with trusted, authentic voices helping to activate change.
From continuous change to meaningful change
Our Change Capability Quotient provides a blueprint for continuous, meaningful, successful change .
And our full report highlights how to identify and overcome obstacles to change, pointing the way to joining the Reinventors —the elite 9% of organizations which demonstrate the strongest capability to continuously reinvent, with change embedded as a core competency.
The power to become reinvention ready is in all our hands.
Work, workforce, workers: Reinvented in the age of generative AI
Gen AI will transform entire value chains—and the very nature of work itself. Leaders need to lead and learn in new ways to drive business performance and more productive, creative and meaningful work for everyone.
Reinvention in the age of generative AI
Five imperatives the C-suite must address to reinvent in the age of generative AI.
The CHRO as a growth executive
A new type of CHRO is leading their C-suite peers in connecting data, technology and people and cultivating collaboration. These “High-Res” CHROs bring growth and exceptional experiences into higher resolution.
Reinvention, by the numbers
The current pace of change presents both a challenge and an opportunity. Organizations that understand the dynamic forces at play are reinventing themselves. And it’s working.
