'Halloween spectacular' to feature Utah Saints alongside local DJs
Rude Giant Beer House to host Groove Junction DJ sets and Utah Saints
1/1
A ‘Halloween spectacular’ event is coming to the city featuring a world renowned duo and six exciting music sets.
Groove Junction, presented by DJ Emma Ryalls, will take place at Rude Giant Beer House on Saturday, October 26, offering sets of funk, drum and bass, UK garage, house and disco music.
Headlining the night will be rave legends Utah Saints, known for their 90s chart-topping hits What Can You do for Me and Something Good.
DJ Emma will also be performing on the bill with other local DJs Bong, KELTZ and Zeph Miles and two newcomers to the scene that Emma is bringing into the spotlight.
Emma set up Groove Junction to not only support local DJs but also to give disabled DJs a platform to showcase their skills within a mainstream setting.
DJ Ash Crowley and MC Dave Wilson have both suffered life-altering brain injuries, but nothing stands in their way when it comes to music. They have been learning the art of DJ-ing with Emma for the past two years. The lessons have helped the pair’s confidence and they are both excited to be playing at the Halloween spectacular.
Emma said: “My night is all about inclusion and diverse music.
“I want people to come, they may not be expecting Ash and Dave to perform, and then they go away thinking, WOW!”
Emma added: “I think there’s prejudice – people have preconceived ideas about disabilities.
“People will come and realise what an amazing atmosphere it is. Everyone should have the same level of enjoyment whoever you are.”
PICTURED (L-R): Dave Wilson, Emma Ryalls and Ash Jade Crowley (Image: Newsquest)
Ash will bring disco music to the club night at Rude Giant, while Dave will play drum and bass.
Dave, known as MC 3-Bee, said: “I love getting the crowd going, it’s my number one love in life.”
The night is intended to be accessible and inclusive to all, and open to all ages over 18 years old.
Emma said: "People that I’ve spoken to, after they’ve seen Ash perform, say that watching her made them feel pretty emotional because she’s just so into the music!"
And as for Dave, Emma added: “Drum and bass fans are just loving Dave. The audience all come running up and just hug him.”
Rude Giant promises a 'myriad of sounds' on the night, adding 'your ears will be spoilt for choice' on its social media pages.
The night kicks off at 8pm through until 3am. Fancy dress is encouraged, but not mandatory. Tickets start at £10 and can be purchased from Fastoma here .
Comments: Our rules
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Please report any comments that break our rules.
Sort by
Enter the above word in the box below
Yes delete
© 2001-2024 . Newsquest Media Group Ltd , 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
Modal headline
Submit
Cancel
Deactivate
Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event .
As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles.
Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.
These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community.
It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.
Close
