Advertisement
| Updated:
The swing state party members fear Green Party candidate Jill Stein will steal votes from them and hamper Kamala Harris ' chances of election victory.
The far-left Stein is often considered a spoiler candidate who swung votes away from Hillary Clinton 2016. She is back on the ballot in 2024 and determined to make a statement.
Stein believes that anti-Israel sentiment - along with rhetoric about the Jewish state committing 'genocide' - from Muslims and Arab Americans in swing states like Michigan will ultimately deny Harris the presidency this November.
However, it's in Wisconsin where Stein's Green Party seems to be causing liberals the most anxiety, after Joe Biden won the state by just 21,000 votes in 2020 .
Stein is expected to be on the ballot in 2024 after the party's 2020 candidate Howie Hawkins was left off on a technicality and Democrats are sweating out every vote.
Green Party candidate Jill Stein has warned that Kamala Harris cannot win the White House and her followers have Democrats in swing state Wisconsin terrified
It's in Wisconsin where Stein's Green Party seems to be causing liberals the most anxiety, after Joe Biden won the state by just 21,000 votes in 2020
Pete Karas, the Green Party leader in Wisconsin , is glad to cause them consternation.
'We need to teach Democrats a lesson. They're trying to mess with us and mess with democracy, and they have a couple of choices,' he told Politico .
'They can continue to do that and suffer the consequences, or they can pass ranked choice voting so that we actually do have fair elections.'
Caroline Bechen, a Democrat activist and elected official in a suburb of state capital Madison, is certainly uncomfortable.
'Of course I have concerns. I'd be a fool if I didn't have concerns. I am almost afraid to be optimistic,' she said.
Stein has already spoken about what she believes is a betrayal of Muslims in the midwest.
'The Democrats cannot win without the support of the Muslim American community,' she said.
'And that community has left the station and is not coming back unless the Democrats decide that it's more important to them to win the election than it is to conduct the genocide.'
Green Party candidate Jill Stein says Kamala Harris 'cannot' win the election in November and will be part of the effort to stop it
Anti-Israel protesters like the CODEPINK group have hijacked Harris' rallies in the state in recent week
Anti-Israel protesters from the group CODEPINK hijacked a Harris rally in the state, chanting: 'Kamala, Kamala, you can't hide. We charge you with genocide.'
Democrats in the state don't believe the threat is serious because the party has no real power or presence to speak of.
Only one Green Party member serves on one of Wisconsin's 72 county boards of supervisor and only one 82-year-old candidate from the Greens is running for Congress.
Even though Stein herself hasn't even been to Wisconsin in seven months, Democrats believe anti-Israel sentiment could find their way to either voting Green or not at all on November 5.
'I've been talking to people who don't want to vote, or want to vote Green Party. Most of those [conversations] are about the war in Gaza,' said at-large Wisconsin delegate Evelyn Comer.'
Stein sees a Democrat Party worried about her potential influence and unwilling to win over her voters.
'The [Democrats] appear to be quite afraid of facing the music here … they want to wipe out their competition so they don't have to face a challenge,' she said.
She's even accused the Democratic National Committee of deeply underhanded tactics.
Stein sees a Democrat Party worried about her potential influence and unwilling to win over her voters
'They wanted people to infiltrate and spy on our campaign. It smells like a rat.'
Stein is referring to a DNC job posting that was posted and quickly taken down in May titled 'Independent & Third Party Project Manager.'
The DNC has not commented on the job posting.
Stein - currently polling in single digits but the most ardently anti-Israel candidate on the ballot - spelled out what the Democrats need to do to sway her voters.
'So they have to do a 180 on the genocide and they don't appear willing to do that. They could win those votes back, but it doesn't look like that's on the cards. So it looks like they are sacrificing several swing states,' she said.
She says that Harris will lose enough of Muslim and Arab voters to swing the election to Trump. Most polls show her within the margin of error, tied or losing to Trump in places like Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania.
Instead, Stein claims those voters are choosing to embrace her candidacy.
The DNC put up a job posting in May whose responsibilities included 'Following RFK Jr., Cornel West, Jill Stein candidate events in the region and sharing intel in real time'
A DNC job posting that was posted and quickly taken down in May titled 'Independent & Third Party Project Manager.'
'We're doing outreach all the time to a lot of different groups but it's really been the Muslim Americans and Arab Americans who have really taken this campaign on like it's theirs—like they have enormous ownership over this,' she said.
Trump will be headed to Wisconsin for a rally on Saturday as he continues to gain ground on Harris in the swing states.
As of Saturday morning, RealClearPolitics has Harris with just under a point lead on Trump in their aggregate, while FiveThirtyEight has the vice president up by 1.6 points.
DailyMail.com's election model has the state as a tossup, with the arrow pointing ever slightly toward Harris for now.
DON'T MISS
DON'T MISS
From the Makers of Candy Crush
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
