YOUR FIRST*
ORDER NOW
Sign up to our newsletter and receive 15% off along with exclusive offers, deals and store discounts online.
zoom-icon
zoom-icon
zoom-icon
zoom-icon
Regular price
Error
Product information
Material:
Titanium
DESCRIPTION
With its polished gloss and simple style, this shiny titanium magnetic bracelet from gausstherapy is a must-have for your everyday jewellery collection. The bracelet is featured in silver with two gold striking lines throughout the bracelet and a strong fold over clasp for ease of use and secure wearing on your wrist.
This bracelet makes the perfect gift for arthritis sufferers of someone simply wanting to grow their jewellery collection!
BIO ENERGY 4-IN-1 ELEMENTS: Combining our high power 3500 Gauss Magnets and other elements such as Germanium, Anion and Fir Stones, gives extra benefits. These help to relieve the symptoms of fibromyalgia, carpal tunnel and tennis elbow. We create our bracelets with strongest magnets available, much stronger than any other weaker magnetic products you'll find online. PURE TITANIUM & IP PLATING: Titanium is extremely strong and incredibly lightweight you'll hardly know you are wearing it. Titanium is an extremely robust and very low maintenance metal perfect for everyday wear. 100% HYPOALLERGENIC: Our bracelets will not irritate your skin or cause the allergic reactions that may happen using other materials like steel or copper. FASHIONABLE: Our titanium range is so discreet that no one would suspect it's a therapeutic bracelet. With many designs there is a magnetic bracelet for everyone. FREE LINK REMOVER: All our link bracelets come with a tool allowing you to easily adjust the size of your bracelet at home, so that it will always fit on your wrist perfectly. GIFT PACKAGING: Comes in a premium quality luxury gift box. This provides a safe place to keep your energy bracelet or to send as a present to a family member or a friend. Large Selection of Magnetic Jewellery - Free UK Delivery. Free Gift Box With Your Order. Buy & Try For 30 Days. Return Unwanted Gifts Anytime. Worldwide Delivery. 100% Guaranteed Satisfaction. Shop Now!.
DELIVERY & RETURNS
FLAT RATE
Pay only one shipping rate regardless of the amount you purchase in store.
PRIORITY*
Priority shipping is available on all orders before 1pm. This is also a Mon-Fri service only so please be aware when making the upgrade. Weekend & bank holiday priority next day shipping orders will be sent out on the next working day.
If you have any questions about deliveries, our customer service team can be reached via the contact form or directly by email at: info@gausstherapy.com.
Why Buy Titanium
Joint Pain, carpal tunnel, tennis elbow, tendonitis, repetitive strain injury (RSI)
Pain and inflammation in the knees, shoulders, arms, wrist or hands.
Poor circulation associated with diabetes; cold hands and feet.
Helps Your Body To Help Itself!
Magnetic therapy has been used for years to help reduce inflammation, alleviate pain, and improve blood circulation.
It is also used to reduce stress & anxiety, improve sleep, and enhance overall well being.
EXTRA STRONG high powered 3500 Gauss Magnets helping to relieve the symptoms of arthritis and carpal tunnel. These are the strongest magnets available, much stronger then any other magnetic products on the market!
Reviews
ship-icon
Magnets force the calcium ions to travel quicker through your body, thereby catalysing the healing cycles for bones and nervous tissues. Additionally, magnetic therapy promotes endorphin production, which leads to a reduction in pain and increase in a general feeling of wellness
Discover wellness!!!
MAGNETIC THERAPY
Remediates pain
GERMANIUM
Eliminates the harmful toxins
Enhances your mental clarity
Slows down the aging process
Improvement in cardiovascular health
Eases pain and inflammation
TOURMALINE STONES
Believed to help promote happiness
Helps reduce fear among its users
Protects your body against radiation
Lesley J.
Great item - the hubby already has one and swears by it - doesn’t tarnish either - looks good
Sonal
Miss M.
Bracelet arrived, boxed nicely in padded envelope. Had to remove a few links but this was easily done with the tool provided. Happy with the product.
Karen P.
Excellent it fairly works I've had a sore arm for a while it has been alot better since wearing my bracket
Richard M.
Michael H.
So many people told me it would not work but I fort I would try it it seems to be working for me all good
CHRISTOPHER  .
My last bracelet unfortunately broke so i was looking for another.  Came across your website.  Had a look . Liked what i saw . Very stylish.  Has a lot of magnets which do a great job . You don't know you are wearing it. When looking at it on the wrist you wouldn't know what it is
Malissa S.
The bracelet is light, comfortable and attractive.  It is too soon to say whether it is effective!
Michael W.
Looks as good as in the online picture, don't yet know wether it lives up to claims re Arthritis ect but it looks good on arm!!
Follow us
GaussTherapy® offers a wide range of magnetic therapy jewellery for arthritis, carpal tunnel and fibromyalgia.
Contact Number: 07305 128108
Payment Methods
Use left/right arrows to navigate the slideshow or swipe left/right if using a mobile device
Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.
Press the space key then arrow keys to make a selection.
cart white
