Real Life Network brings you relevant life-changing Biblical Worldview programming that will motivate and educate people to intentionally live out their faith.
No items found.
No items found.
No items found.
The Gospel will not be censored
Big Tech, Big Government, and Big Business have increased their efforts to silence the teachings of Jesus. The Real Life Network was created to offer faith-based content that will strengthen you and the beliefs you value.
Free for you to enjoy on any device
The Real Life Network is available on your favorite device, anywhere, anytime! Never miss a moment to enrich your life with shows that inspire.
Entertainment for the whole family
The Real Life Network has something for everyone. Choose from a wide range of categories, including culture, current events, faith in politics, and kids' programming.
Trending Topics
Bible-based, family-friendly entertainment, wisdom, and truth. All of the unapologetic Biblical teachings and messages of Pastor Jack Hibbs of Real Life Ministry in ONE place. Biblical Worldview children’s content, news, culture and current events, documentaries, music, podcasts, video shorts, comedy, and much more.
IntroducingReal Life Network Hawaii
As the Real Life Network grows, it will reach local communities around the world with creative faith-based storytelling and missions work. It all starts with Real Life Network Hawaii (KALOTV), which has been the home for Christian content across all the Hawaiian Islands for more than two decades.
Frequently Asked Questions
What is The Real Life Network?
The Real Life Network (RLN) is a digital media platform that features Biblical Worldview programming to fast forward the faith of viewers across the globe and ensure that God’s Word will never be silenced by Big Tech and Big Government.
What shows can I watch on The Real Life Network?
The Real Life Network’s goal is to empower viewers by providing family-friendly entertainment, teachings, and other content to live out an abundant life based on the Bible.
You’ll be able to enjoy in ONE place all the unapologetic Biblical teachings, events, and ministry of Pastor Jack Hibbs of Real Life Ministry.
The Real Life Network also features a wide variety of children’s programming, news, culture and current events, documentaries, music, podcasts, video shorts, and comedy, etc., that adheres to a Biblical Worldview.
Where can I watch The Real Life Network?
Everything on the network is at the fingertips of viewers whenever and wherever they want to access it—across all devices, including mobile phones, connected TVs, desktops, laptops, tablets, AppleTV, Apple iOS, Amazon FireTV, ROKU, Chromecast, Google Play, and more.
How do I subscribe to the Network?
Simply provide your email and sign in to set up a FREE account! No credit card or payment information required.‍
Watch for Free: The Real Life Network is donor supported. We want to reach and disciple millions of people around the world with powerful, relevant, and life-changing Biblical Worldview content. The programming will motivate, educate, and encourage people to intentionally live out their faith at home, in their neighborhoods and workplaces, and around the world. Please consider becoming a donor.
How do I cancel my membership?
You can cancel your membership at any time through your online account. Should you have any trouble attempting to cancel your subscription, please contact us at [email protected] for customer support.
What if I forgot my password?
When you go to sign in, click the "Forgot password" link and enter your email — be sure it's the one associated with your Real Life Network account. You'll receive an email with a link to reset your password. Click on the link and then sign in using your new password.
You may also visit this link directly: https://media.reallifenetwork.com/forgot-pw
NOTE: If you don't see the password reset email in your inbox after a few minutes, be sure to check your spam/junk folder.
Who is the Founder of The Real Life Network?
Jack Hibbs is the founder of The Real Life Network and Real Life Ministry, along with being a nationally-syndicated radio and television host. Hibbs is also the founding pastor of Calvary Chapel Chino Hills, whose straightforward, truthful, and insightful teaching style provides a greater understanding of God’s Word. He can be found on Real Life TV, Real Life Radio, the Jack Hibbs Podcast, on all social media platforms, and now the Real Life Network.
What is the doctrinal statement of The Real Life Network?
The Bible, the Word of God, serves as the foundation of The Real Life Network, with an understanding that salvation is received by grace alone through faith in Jesus Christ (Ephesians 2:8-9).
Learn more at ReaLlifeNetwork.com/Doctrine
Please email our team at [email protected]
Fast Forward Your Faith.
Simply sign up for FREE unlimited access to Real Life Network.
STEP 2
STEP 3
Grow your relationship with God. Engage with entertainment you’ll love!
