Find emergency 2024 general election voting information for N.C. voters in the disaster area: Helene Recovery and Voting
Information and Resources on Hurricane Helene
For North Carolina residents and visitors impacted by Hurricane Helene. Go Now
Donate to Hurricane Recovery
Please give to the North Carolina Disaster Relief Fund to help communities recover from Helene Donate Now
Previous
Pause
Play
Next
An official website of the State of North Carolina An official website of NC How you know
Secure websites use HTTPS certificates. A lock icon or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website.
Utility Menu
Absentee-By-Mail Voting
Any North Carolina registered voter may request, receive, and vote a mail-in absentee ballot. For an overview of North Carolina’s 2024 general election, visit Upcoming Election .
Registered voters in North Carolina must request an absentee ballot with an official NC Absentee Ballot Request Form. There are two ways to access and submit the form:
Online:
On paper:
After completing, submit the form to your county board of elections or in person or by mail via the US Postal Service, DHL, FedEx, or UPS.
Track your absentee-by-mail ballot through the mail: Once you have requested your absentee ballot, you can track its status from printed to accepted by signing up online for status notifications through BallotTrax . BallotTrax will be available 30 days prior to the election.
Military and Overseas Voting
The federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA) allows certain voters an expedited means to register and vote by mail-in ballot. Find more information at Military and Overseas Voting .
Accessible Absentee Voting
If you are a blind or visually impaired voter in North Carolina, you can request, mark, and return an accessible absentee ballot online through a system that is compatible with screen readers and that allows for a digital or typed signature. Learn more at Accessible Absentee Voting .
If you live at a facility such as a hospital, clinic, or nursing home, find details about receiving assistance with mail-in voting and other services provided by a multipartisan assistance team (MAT) at Assistance for Voters in Care Facilities .
Voting by mail in North Carolina takes three simple steps — requesting, completing, and returning a ballot. Find more information at Detailed Instructions to Vote By Mail .
FAQ
Related Content
P.O. Box 27255
Raleigh, NC 27611-7255
