AiC Labs: HPE’s University Recruiting Workshop
TODAY @5pmET

We are excited to invite you to an upcoming professional development session designed to enhance your career readiness. This session will focus on key skills to help you stand out in today's competitive job market.


Topics will include:
Resume Writing: Learn how to craft a compelling and competitive resume that effectively showcases your skills, experiences, and accomplishments.
Interview Best Practices: Gain valuable insights on how to prepare for interviews, answer common questions, and make a lasting impression with potential employers.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise

Additionally, you’ll have the opportunity to learn more about HPE’s University Programs and explore the exciting opportunities available to university students like yourself. HPE’s session is tailored to help you upskill and prepare for your future career endeavors. We look forward to seeing you there!

While all are welcome to attend, this event is especially geared towards collegiate-level students graduating in 2024, 2025, or 2026.
Join here
Upcoming AiC Meetups
 Let's hangout in real life!
 

NCWIT/AiC Meetups
We have 1 more AiC Meetup this Fall, hopefully, in a city near you!

 

Boston Meetup, November 1
Boston
Are you local to the Greater Boston area?
Join us at Lucky Strike on Friday, November 1

 

We need your help!
Bi-annual survey for AiC Community Members

Can you take a few minutes to complete the NCWIT Where are they Now survey? It will help us to understand all of the different things the members of our community are doing. We appreciate you time and help with this evaluation and 25 respondents will win a $25 Amazon gift card. 

Click here to start the survey
Congressional App Challenge
Register for the 2024 Congressional App Challenge and start coding their apps for 2024. The competition deadline is October 24th, 2024 at 12:00 pm ET.

Congressional App Challenge

Learn more here.
 
Careers at University of Chicago

The University of Chicago

Assistant Professor of Data Science

Associate Professor of Data Science

Professor of Data Science

 
ScholarSHPE Applications Are Open! 

ScholarSHPE Applications Are Open; Due November 15
Lack of funds is one of the most challenging reasons facing Hispanic students pursuing their degrees. So SHPE offers thousands of reasons to ensure their members DO reach graduation – over a million to be exact. With over 1,500 scholarships awarded since 2018 totaling over $5,000,000, SHPE is actively narrowing the gap in the Hispanic STEM education pipeline.

 

Apply by November 15!

Learn more and apply here: https://shpe.org/engage/programs/scholarshpe/

Apply for the AiC High School Award by Nov 8th!
Deadline Extended
 
The AiC High School Award honors 9th - 12th grade women, genderqueer, and non-binary students for their computing-related achievements and interests. We want to know how you aspire to use computing to further your dreams and passions, uplift others, or help your community.




This is more than just a competition – it’s an opportunity to see yourself represented in tech spaces and to be the voice the world is waiting to hear.
 

Application Deadlines:

Application Window: September 1, 2024 - November 8, 2024
Parent Approval and Educator Endorsements due: November 11, 2024
Start your application!
Encourage a student to apply.
Apply for the AiC Collegiate Award by November 18!
 
The AiC Collegiate Award honors the outstanding computing accomplishments of undergraduate and graduate women, genderqueer, and non-binary students. The award recognizes technical contributions to projects that demonstrate a high level of innovation and potential impact.

The world needs your ideas. Apply for the Aspirations in Computing Collegiate Award

Winners receive $10,000 in cash, Honorable Mentions receive $2,500 in cash, and Finalists receive $150.

Past projects have spanned app development, cybersecurity, machine learning, space technologies, and more — and there’s room for yours to be included, too!
 
Application Deadlines:
Preliminary Round: September 1, 2024 - November 18, 2024
Finalist Round: January 6, 2025 - February 3, 2025
Start your application today!
Encourage a student to apply.
Want More Opportunities?

Check out the AiC Opportunities page here!


