Good morning. I’m off today, so Vaughn Vreeland, my colleague from New York Times Cooking, is filling in to tell you about holiday cookies. — Melissa Kirsch

Cookies are arranged in vertical rows. Some are circles with white and red frosting. Some are large and orangish. Some are covered in nuts.
Julia Gartland for The New York Times
Sweet season
By Vaughn Vreeland

Cookie hive, assemble. Why? Because it’s the most wonderful time of the year.

I’m Vaughn! You may remember me from last year, but if not, I’m the emcee of this tradition my colleagues and I at New York Times Cooking call Cookie Week. It’s a larger-than-life celebration of one of those little things that make the holidays so sweet — cookies! This year we rolled out seven cookies, along with fun video tutorials, from all-stars like Sohla El-Waylly, Melissa Clark and Eric Kim. I might be in there, too — you never know.

A big part of our process is thinking about how to modernize the classics: colorful takes on classic shortbread, interesting yet festive flavor combinations, shapes beyond your classic circle. Cookie Week is as much a visual experience as it is a taste experience, and this year we wanted our collection of recipes to have something for everyone. In July, when we started planning this year’s cookies, we leaned heavily into nostalgia for inspiration. Yule logs, rocky road and hot buttered rum all came to us like visions of sugarplums.

After months of planning, testing, filming, photographing, designing and eating (I live for quality control), our cookies finally made their debut last week. They go together like Elphaba and Glinda, and much like our favorite witches of Oz, I have been changed for good by this year’s lineup.

Three gems
Holiday Rocky Road, a bar of chocolate with sweets and nuts embedded inside.
Julia Gartland for The New York Times
I don’t play favorites, but I have found myself gravitating to Sohla’s holiday rocky road, a no-bake confection that’s essentially marshmallows, nuts and other fun things enrobed in chocolate and sliced into bars. She adds cookie butter to the melted chocolate so that it slices more like fudge, giving it a hint of spice and a lovely melt-in-your-mouth quality. It’s also beautiful — bejeweled with gumdrops and adorned with fun sprinkles — and comes together in minutes, making it perfect for gifting and even better for snacking.

An orangish Ginger Cheesecake Cookie atop a red felt tablecloth.
Julia Gartland for The New York Times
I’m also leaning toward Samantha Seneviratne’s ginger cheesecake cookies. They’re chewy, spicy and sparkly with a tangy little surprise inside. Need I go on? OK, I will. Three kinds of ginger — crystallized, ground and freshly chopped — infuse the simple dough, which is stuffed with a frozen dollop of cheesecake filling, rolled in sanding sugar and baked to perfection. I love how they glitter in the glow of my Christmas lights and perfume my apartment with warm spices.

Small circular cookies adorned with slices of almond.
Julia Gartland for The New York Times
I’ve been baking for Cookie Week since I helped start it five years ago, and working on my yearly offering is the only thing I love about turning my oven on in July. My rum-buttered almond cookies are pillowy mounds of fragrant marzipan-like dough that are covered in toasted almonds and lathered in a buttery rum glaze that infuses into the cookies. I love all my cookie children, but this one might be my favorite (don’t tell the others). They also go from tablespoon to tabletop in about 30 minutes, which means you can keep making them over and over. Plus, they’re gluten-free!

If you’re new to this whole holiday baking thing, I’ve got a few tips to help you. Stock up on the essentials, like sugar, butter and flour. Our friends at Wirecutter have put together a list of their favorite baking gear, like rolling pins and cooling racks. Get lots of sleep, put on a fire playlist to get in a festive mood, and don’t forget to drink water!

You can find recipes for all of this year’s cookies here. You’re in for a real treat. Actually, seven!

Ad
Ad
THE WEEK IN CULTURE
Music

Taylor Swift performed her final show of the Eras Tour, a two-year tour that permeated popular culture and generated $2 billion in ticket sales.
Jay-Z strenuously denied the allegations in a lawsuit that accused him of raping a 13-year-old with Sean Combs.
The country superstar Morgan Wallen pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges after he was accused of throwing a chair off the roof of a bar.
It started with a novelty songwriter stranded on a snowy night. Decades later, holiday-season listeners can’t get “Grandma Got Run Over by a Reindeer” out of their heads.
Online

Selena Gomez announced her engagement to Benny Blanco. Her ring went viral.
BuzzFeed is selling the company behind the popular interview show “Hot Ones” for $82.5 million.
Film and TV

Timothée Chalamet acting as Bob Dylan in the 1960s, with a similar hairstyle, wearing a leather jacket, holding an acoustic guitar and standing in front of a microphone.
Timothée Chalamet in “A Complete Unknown.” Macall Polay/Searchlight Pictures, via Associated Press
“A Complete Unknown,” the Bob Dylan biopic starring Timothée Chalamet, premiered. Reviews are mixed. (Chalamet sang live, and his voice made the final cut.)
Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie are rebooting “The Simple Life.”
Meet “Mr. Christmas”: Ezra Moreland, a former Navy rescue swimmer from Kansas, beat out 10 other contestants for a role in a new Hallmark Christmas movie.
The parents of Conan O’Brien, the late-night host, died this week within days of each other. They were married for 66 years.
More Culture

“In Slavery’s Wake,” at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture, explores how the slave trade shaped the world.
Sotheby’s laid off more than 100 staff members as its sales slump.
The hottest job in fashion has finally been filled: Chanel named Matthieu Blazy as its new artistic director.
Astro Bot, a PlayStation platformer starring an adorable android, won game of the year at the Game Awards.
THE LATEST NEWS
Trump Administration

A screen grab from a video of Aaron Siri, who wears a dark blue suit and gray tie, speaking at a microphone at a table in front of a government committee out of view.
Aaron Siri, a lawyer helping Robert F. Kennedy Jr. pick health officials for the incoming Trump administration. House Judiciary GOP
Robert F. Kennedy Jr.’s lawyer once petitioned the F.D.A. to revoke its approval of the polio vaccine.
Senator Mitch McConnell, a Republican who survived polio as a child, suggested the petition could jeopardize Kennedy’s confirmation to be Donald Trump’s health secretary.
Kash Patel, Trump’s pick for F.B.I. director, has exaggerated his role in the Justice Department’s inquiry into the Benghazi attack.
Sam Altman, OpenAI’s chief executive, plans to donate $1 million to Trump’s inaugural fund. Meta and Amazon have done the same.
Daniel Penny, a former Marine who was acquitted after choking a homeless man to death in a New York subway car, will attend today’s Army-Navy football game as a guest of Trump and JD Vance.
International

South Korean lawmakers voted to impeach President Yoon Suk Yeol, suspending him from office after his declaration of martial law earlier this month set off outrage.
Some European politicians say that Syrian refugees should return home now that Bashar al-Assad’s government has fallen.
President Emmanuel Macron appointed François Bayrou, a centrist, as France’s prime minister. Bayrou is the fourth prime minister this year.
Other Big Stories

Texas’ attorney general sued a New York doctor for sending abortion pills into Texas, which has a near-total abortion ban. The lawsuit opens a new front in the legal battle over abortion access.
New Jersey residents have reported seeing mysterious drones in the night sky. The federal authorities have offered few answers.
Former Speaker Nancy Pelosi, 84, was hospitalized with a fractured hip after she tripped and fell while traveling in Luxembourg with other members of Congress.
The consulting firm McKinsey & Company will pay $650 million to settle a Justice Department investigation into its work with the opioid maker Purdue Pharma.
Ends soon: Our best rate on unlimited access for Morning readers.

Save now with our best offer on unlimited news and analysis as part of the complete Times experience: $1/week for your first year.

CULTURE CALENDAR
🦁 “Mufasa: The Lion King” (Friday): Maybe you loved the 2019 “Lion King” remake, which swapped in remarkably realistic CGI animals for the original’s bright cartoon characters? (Lots of people did; it made over $1.5 billion internationally.) Or maybe you’re just looking to fill a day during the kids’ holiday break. This Disney prequel offers an origin story for Simba’s dad. Barry Jenkins of “Moonlight” fame directs, and Blue Ivy Carter, Beyoncé’s daughter, makes her feature film debut.

Ad
Ad
RECIPE OF THE WEEK
Toasted cubes of bread, speckled with cinnamon sugar.
Rachel Vanni for The New York Times
Cinnamon Toast Cookies
By Melissa Clark

Need just one more confection to round off your holiday cookie box? Let me suggest Ali Slagle’s adorable cinnamon toast cookies. These crouton-size squares are easy to prep and even easier to snack on, a handful at a time. Made from white bread (or brioche or milk bread) coated in melted butter and cinnamon sugar, then baked, they’re delightful to tuck into cookie boxes or to offer by the bowlful as a sweet ending to a holiday party.

REAL ESTATE
A home that consists of two stacked rectangles wrapped in dark wood and zinc, with terraces on both levels, floating in a canal.
A floating home in downtown Copenhagen. Birgitta Wolfgang
In Copenhagen: A couple hired an architect with experience designing floating homes. The outcome was a dream.

The Hunt: She was seeking an income-generating home near New York with space for her brother to potentially live. Which one did she pick? Play our game.

What you get for $1.4 million: A home from 1900 in Woodstock, N.Y., a midcentury modern house in Las Vegas and a converted barn in Chester, Conn.

LIVING
A collage illustration that includes a photo of a microscope, X-ray images of the digestive tract and a person’s head, a coronavirus and other graphic elements. 
Israel Vargas
Bloating and indigestion: Covid can change your gut.

Traveling to Britain? You might need to apply and pay a fee first.

Gifting: It’s not too late to limit holiday spending.

Kids: Stream these five movies with them.

ADVICE FROM WIRECUTTER
A no-fuss trick for better sleep
There are countless high-tech gadgets that claim to help you get better sleep, like sunrise alarm clocks, light-therapy glasses and cooling mattress covers. But sometimes the most effective solutions are the simplest ones. For me, it was a sleep mask. After much trial and error (including stealing — er, borrowing — my husband’s sleep mask), I received this adjustable silk one last Christmas. I’ve worn it every night since and slept like a rock. — Maxine Builder

GAME OF THE WEEK
A split image shows the Bills’ Josh Allen in blue and the Lions’ Jared Goff in white.
Bills quarterback Josh Allen and Lions quarterback Jared Goff. Associated Press
Buffalo Bills vs. Detroit Lions, N.F.L.: Detroit and Buffalo are separated by a Great Lake but united by a common spirit, as Tim Graham writes in The Athletic. They’re both union towns. They can get dreary in winter. And they live and die by their long-suffering N.F.L. teams. This season, though, one of them might finally win a Super Bowl. The Lions are 12-1 and the league’s clear front-runner. The Bills are 10-3, and quarterback Josh Allen is having an M.V.P. season. The Lions are the top-scoring team in the N.F.L.; the Bills are a close second. Sunday at 4:25 p.m. Eastern on CBS

NOW TIME TO PLAY

Here is today’s Spelling Bee. Yesterday’s pangram was trackway.

Take the news quiz to see how well you followed this week’s headlines.

And here are today’s Mini Crossword, Wordle, Sudoku, Connections and Strands.

Thanks for spending part of your weekend with The Times. — Melissa

