Hi Courtney, 

We're faced with terms like Gen AI, LLMs, chatbots, agents, etc. in almost everything we do, both in our personal and professional lives. Let's admit it – we're already living in the world of AI. But what about the role of AI in education or in cybersecurity?

 

Scroll down for a deep dive into what AI-driven cyberattacks actually look like today and how they can be detected and prevented. Then, listen to the latest episode of Smart Talks with IBM and learn more about how the role of AI in the classroom is rapidly evolving.

 

And finally, join us in celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month as we showcase the impactful contributions of Hispanic technologists at IBM.

 

Enjoy the read!

 

Worried about AI malware?


The threat landscape is always evolving, and there might come a time when AI-based malware poses a serious danger. Read on to learn why AI-generated malware has some on edge, but many security experts are unfazed and rely on cybersecurity fundamentals to detect and prevent AI-powered attacks.

Read the article
 

The role of AI in the classroom


The role of AI in the classroom is evolving rapidly. When students and teachers embrace this technology, it has the ability to democratize access to education. Learn about the importance of lifelong learning, upskilling, and the ethical implications of AI in education with this episode of Smart Talks with IBM.

Listen now
 
Explore our open roles


Looking for the next step in your career? Visit the IBM Careers Website to find the opportunity that best matches your skills and interests.

 
It’s Hispanic Heritage Month! 

Throughout the month, we’re spotlighting inspiring stories of Hispanic IBMers who are pushing boundaries and challenging the status quo. Join us in amplifying their voices and making an impact! Show your support by liking, sharing, and commenting on the content below:


→ Level up your Scrum Master skills! Marco, a Senior IT Strategy Consultant, shares his expert tips on how to master the Scrum framework and agile methodologies for anyone looking to improve their technical expertise and people skills.

 

→ Lizeth, a Project Manager within IBM's Infrastructure division, leads a high-performing team to drive client success. Read her story to learn what are the responsibilities and essential skills of a project manager.

 

→ What is a delivery consultant and how can you become one? Check out this blog to see how Marc, a Delivery Consultant in IBM Global Sales, is handling complex projects, while delivering custom solutions for clients.

 

→ With a deep passion for technology, Jose, a Data & AI Technical Specialist, shares what it takes to succeed as a Brand Sales Specialist. From mastering data analysis to applying machine learning, he highlights the essential skills for success.

 
Photo of the month


Meet Juliana! Two years ago, she made the bold decision to leave Brazil and move to the US to follow her dreams. Since moving, her world has expanded, and she has learned to navigate cultures and bring out the best in herself. Click here to read her story.

 
Once an IBMer,

Always an IBMer.


If you're a former IBMer or you'd like to expand your network with former IBMers, follow the IBM Alumni page on LinkedIn and engage in our conversations.

 
Keep in touch!

As always, if you need any assistance, drop us a message via social media in the links below.

The IBM Talent Acquisition Team


