Get all the latest information before race day! 
Richmond Marathon Email Header
As the big day approaches, we've got you covered with everything you need to know for the race. Here are a few quick links to help:

View Course Maps
Pace Teams are available! Click here for more details. 
Great spectator info to share with your support crew
 
Health & Fitness Expo returns to Richmond Raceway!
The Health & Fitness Expo is heading back to the Richmond Raceway! Runners can head to the expo on November 14 and 15 to take in the fantastic venue while experiencing the expo. Come pick up your race shirt, bib number, scout your next pair of running shoes, shop official race merchandise, join Lindsey Hein or Another Mother Runner for a live show, snap a few pics, and get pumped for race day!

While at the expo, don't forget to collect a clear bag from the Estes booth! Clear bags are required for anyone wishing to utilize Estes Bag Check on race day.


Tito's Handmade Vodka

LIMITED! Race Day Packet Pick-up
Can’t make it to the Health & Fitness Expo and would rather pick up your bib race morning? Limited Race Day Packet Pick-up is available for $40, which will include receiving your bib pre-race and collecting your swag once you have finished. You MUST purchase before November 16.

Please follow these steps to add race day packet pick-up to your registration.


Packet Mailing - Available through October 31
Can’t make it to the Health & Fitness Expo? We offer the option of paying to have your bib number and shirt mailed to you! Packet Mailing is $30 per person through September 15 and $40 from September 16 – October 31.

Please follow these steps to add packet mailing to your registration.



Race Deferrals - Deadline is October 31
Unfortunately, injuries, last minute travel adjustments, or even just a rough week can derail your race plans. Who knows? Maybe you forgot to train (it happens!). You can switch your race distance online through October 31 for $10 (plus any price difference), or you can switch at the expo for a higher fee. You can also defer your entry to 2025 for $30 as long as you aren’t on a Sports Backers training team or haven’t previously deferred. The deadline to defer is October 31.


Niagara Bottling LLC

NEW! We are an Abbot World Marathon Majors Age Group Qualifying Event! 
The Allianz Partners Richmond Marathon is a partner race of the Abbott World Marathon Majors. If you're vying for a spot at the 2025 AbbottWMM MTT Age Group World Championships, be sure to create a profile with AbbottWMM for you to receive your Age Group World Ranking when results are uploaded to AbbottWMM.com. Any athlete that achieves the Automatic Qualifying Time for their age group on November 16 will receive an immediate notification that they have qualified for the 2025 AbbottWMM MTT Age Group World Championships. Learn more about how it works here >


12 On Your Side
Outside +

Make the most of your Run Richmond experience!
Run Richmond Premium Package
Want to make your #RunRichmond experience even sweeter? With the Premium Package, race morning will begin in a private area where you’ll enjoy light breakfast items and coffee, private gear check, and private restrooms. After the race, celebrate with a catered brunch, celebratory champagne, massage, and more! Learn more >
 
Register as a group, team, or club and save!
Are you part of your local running club? Do you run with a group of friends or co-workers? Do you just want to do this thing with your people? Either way, running as a team is always more fun and at the Allianz Partners Richmond Marathon, we invite you and your squad to join in on that fun! Team perks and "Biggest Squad" are up for grabs! Participants must be on your team by October 31 to count towards the biggest squad competition. Learn more >

Like swag? Or both? Complete the Richmond Challenge!
Complete your choice of the Allianz Partners Richmond Marathon, CarMax Richmond Half Marathon, or VCU Health Richmond 8k on November 16 and finish the other two distances virtually! You’ll have the whole month of November to complete your virtual events. In addition to the finish swag for each event, you’ll also earn a special medal, for a total of four medals, three shirts, two blankets, and two hats! Beat the November 12 price hike and register for the remaining distances!
 
Run with a pace team on race day!
Trying to qualify for Boston or set a PR?  The Richmond Road Runners Club is proud to offer Pace Teams for the Allianz Partners Richmond Marathon and the CarMax Richmond Half Marathon. Click here to register for a pace team  >

Join the wear blue: run to remember Circle of Remembrance on race morning
Join wear blue: run to remember for a Circle of Remembrance at 6:30 AM on Broad Street on November 16. In this special gathering, we will speak the names of fallen service members, honoring their lives through active remembrance. We invite all race participants to join us in this moment of reflection. To learn more, visit www.wearblueruntoremember.org

CoStar Group Post Race Party
The CoStar Group Post Race Party takes place on Brown’s Island, adjacent to the finish line and along the riverfront. Along with Post Race Food for the participants, there’s music, Hardywood craft beer, Tito's and lemonade, food vendors, post-race massages, medal engraving by Finish Line Engravers, sponsor tents, photo ops, race merchandise, and more. Be sure to bring your friends and family to celebrate your accomplishments! 

Pap Johns
Sports Backers logo

Who is Sports Backers?

We're the non-profit organization inspiring people from all corners of our community to live actively! Donate, volunteer, or enter an event to help support our mission!

To see our five-year Strategic Plan-at-a-Glance, click here.
