Dear Students,

I write today with bittersweet news: Dr. Kelly Crace, Associate Vice President for Health & Wellness, has accepted a new appointment as Executive Director of the University of Virginia’s Contemplative Sciences Center, to begin in January.

This is an exciting opportunity for Dr. Crace and for UVA to promote the standard of excellence that he developed over three decades here. This high standard established William & Mary as a national model for integrative wellness.

Dr. Crace began at William & Mary as a staff psychologist in 1992, shortly after he finished his Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology at Duke University. He steadily took on broader responsibilities, becoming an assistant dean of students, then director of our counseling center. Though he briefly returned to his alma mater in the mid-2000s, I was thrilled to recruit him back to William & Mary to serve in a brand-new leadership position in Student Affairs, the associate vice president role in which he has served with distinction since 2013.  

Today, Dr. Crace leads four units in Health & Wellness that promote flourishing and resilience: the Counseling Center, Campus Recreation, Health Promotion and the Student Health Center. He is also the Founding Director of the Center for Mindfulness & Authentic Excellence and serves as an Executive Assistant Professor of Psychology.

Over these years, Dr. Crace expanded the model of care for William & Mary students from a largely reactive posture to the proactive, multi-dimensional, and integrative standard that has revolutionized how universities approach wellness. Today, we emphasize the entire continuum of wellness – from health promotion, prevention, and education, to intervention, treatment, and aftercare – due in large part to Dr. Crace’s robust scholarship and his relational approach to leadership.

Recognized as a thought-leader in the promotion of individual and organizational flourishing, Dr. Crace is in high demand as a presenter, both nationally and internationally. He has authored multiple articles and books, including Authentic Excellence: Flourishing and Resilience in a Relentless World, and he teaches a perennially popular Interdisciplinary Studies course on Flourishing. He also provides clinical care in the private practice he founded in 1994.

Dr. Crace is a natural collaborator, having partnered on campus with our veterans’ programs; integrative conservation; Mandela Washington and IGNITE Fellows programs; faculty development; the provost’s academic well-being initiative, and more. He helped ensure that William & Mary was the first university designated a Healthy Campus under the new framework from the American College Health Association. Over the years, he has been a member of or led countless committees, including in sustainability, threat assessment, mental health, building community, strategic planning, and campus landscape master planning.

At UVA, Dr. Crace will lead the next chapter of their Contemplative Sciences Center, including the grand opening in April 2025 of its new, 57,000-square-foot Contemplative Commons. That facility is similar to our McLeod Tyler Wellness Center, which Dr. Crace envisioned and shepherded through design and construction. In his new role, Dr. Crace will be responsible for planning, executing and assessing the center’s strategic goals; nurturing internal and external partnerships; leading the fundraising and development team; stewarding the center’s finances; and communicating the center’s achievements.

I offer warmest congratulations to Dr. Crace on this exciting opportunity, one that will extend the professionalism and care he’s devoted to William & Mary to a sister institution. Like so many across our campus, I feel fortunate to have worked in close partnership with him over the years, including having benefited from his wisdom and support as a content expert on my doctoral dissertation committee 20 years ago! I am deeply grateful for his dedication to the wellbeing of William & Mary and her people – our students most especially – and I have no doubt we will discover new ways to collaborate with one another and with colleagues across the Commonwealth on critical wellness initiatives.

Happily, Dr. Crace will continue with us at W&M through the end of the Fall semester to help with the transition; I intend to launch a national search for a worthy successor shortly. For now, please join me in congratulating Dr. Crace and expressing gratitude for the gifts of time and talent he has so generously given to our W&M community.

Sincerely,
Ginger Ambler

