Dear students,   
 
I am thrilled to welcome you back to campus this week! As we begin a new semester, here are some tips for you on behalf of all of us in W&M Information Technology.   

Blackboard Ultra 
We are excited to officially be using Blackboard Ultra for the fall semester! This transition enhances course design and provides instructors and students with new features in their courses. Visit IT's Blackboard Ultra for Students webpage to see what is new and improved!  

How to get help  
First and foremost, we are here to help with all your technological needs. Our support staff is available Monday - Friday from 8am - 5pm in Jones Hall. Ways to get help include:  
Call us at 757-221-HELP  
Email us at support@wm.edu  
Come see us in person in the Technology Support Center (Jones Hall Room 201)  
Use our online support chat  
Streaming 
Beginning in August 2024, the university is no longer offering cable television or access to Contour TV campus-wide. Residents are welcome to connect to the wireless network via their personal Smart TVs or streaming sticks and use the streaming service of their choice. Instructions for connecting devices to the network can be found at www.wm.edu/it/devices.  

*Tip: most streaming services like Hulu and Peacock offer student discounts! 
 
Be Secure  
At W&M, information security is everyone’s responsibility. You must take the necessary steps to keep your account secure. We have compiled a list of Security Tips on the IT website that we hope you will review and implement.   
 
Unfortunately, this time of year is a popular time for employment scams. These types of scams target job seekers, especially students, with fake or misleading job offers. Scammers use email, social media, or other methods to ask for information, fees, or money transfers. They may also send fake documents or checks. To avoid them, you should research the employer, and the job offer, be cautious and alert, and report any scams to the authorities and the platform or service used. You can also forward these emails to abuse@wm.edu for our information security team to investigate.  
 
RAVE Guardian App 
I strongly encourage you to download the RAVE Guardian App to help you stay safe. This app allows you to check in with family, friends, campus safety or others you trust to help you stay safe both on and off campus. Learn more and download the app.  
 
Resources for Students  
I encourage you to visit our Student Resources page on the IT website to find a wealth of critical information, including how to connect your devices, download software, change your password, and more!  
 
Subscribe for IT updates  
If you haven’t already, please visit itstatus.wm.edu to check out our service status website. This site will let you know if any of our services are having issues, as well as alert you of upcoming maintenance. We encourage you to subscribe for updates for the services you use most so you can get an alert on your phone anytime there is an issue.  
 
Policies & Procedures 
Take some time to review the university’s IT & Security Policies & Procedures.  
 
I speak for all of us in IT when I say that we hope you have a great first week of classes! Do not hesitate to reach out to our teams for help if you need it.   
 
Sincerely,   
Ed Aractingi  
