Dear William & Mary students, staff, and faculty,

Tomorrow, Nov. 5, is Election Day. Many members of our community will cast ballots in national, statewide, and local races. Many students will vote for the first time this year. If you are eligible to vote, please do so. 

The franchise – the right to vote – is among the most important privileges in a democratic republic. So Student Affairs has made participating easy:
For local election info, where to vote, and voting toolkits, visit our Resources page.
Explore W&M’s Election Barometer to find opportunities that match your level of engagement.
Visit the Daily Grind today and Wednesday, Nov. 6, for a space for reflection.
Contact the W&M Counseling Center or use TimelyCare for mental health support. To speak with an on-call counselor after hours, call (757) 221-3620.
As a reminder, William & Mary will operate on an adjusted Election Day schedule.
University offices will be closed.
No undergraduate classes are scheduled.
Graduate students should consult their school’s academic calendar regarding classes.
I am grateful to the Student Affairs Navigating Elections Working Group, led by Associate Vice President Mike Patterson. With thoughtfulness and care, they have prepared these robust resources for this election season and many to come. Nationally, William & Mary ranks among the top universities for student voter registration. During our last national election, 90% of registered students voted. Let’s top that number this year.

As we approach the United States quarter millennium next year, Vision 2026 reinforces William & Mary’s commitment to civil engagement and debate. Consistent with our legacy as the Alma Mater of the Nation, students, faculty, and staff have leaned into our Better Arguments principles to bridge differences with empathy. We hold open space for respectful dissent and disagreement because this is an essential role for universities in the 21st century.

As we process the election results, please engage in ways that matter to you. Check in with friends and teammates. Use the university’s resources for support as you are moved to. I am proud of the ways William & Mary people continue to forge community across differences – and participate fully in our pluralistic democracy.

Vote, vote, vote, William & Mary!

Katherine
