Dear Students, 

 

I am so glad each of you is part of our William & Mary community, and I look forward to a great year ahead! Each new academic year brings with it a number of important announcements to be shared with the entire student community. Some items require your action — all are things for you to know for the upcoming academic year.

 

Essential Fall Announcements

Detailed information about required actions, important policies, and helpful information is included on our Fall Announcements website. Please take time to review each section. The following three actions are required:

 

Register at least one phone number (your own) in the Emergency Notification System.
Submit an Emergency Evacuation Plan in the event of a short- or long-term campus closure.
(NEW STUDENTS) - Complete Sexual Violence Prevention and Title IX Training. Register in TribeLink.
 

Organizational Changes in Student Affairs

As we move into the new academic year, I’d like to highlight some changes in Student Affairs, many of which stem from a restructuring and realignment of the Dean of Students Office this summer. All of our services and student support systems remain intact and, in some cases, are being enhanced. These changes are focused on better serving you! Here are a few highlights:

 

Academic Wellbeing, Care Support Services, and Student Accessibility Services are part of the newly created Student Success thematic area. Leadership for this area is provided by Dr. Wilmarie Rodriguez, who had been serving as our Senior Associate Dean of Students & Executive Director of Student Success.
Academic Wellbeing is in the process of adding a brand new position to support free tutoring in the TutorZone.
 

Student Accountability & Restorative Practices (formerly CVRP), Conflict Resolution & Education, Gender-Based Violence Resources & Advocacy Services (including The Haven), and Family Engagement (formerly Parent & Family Programs) are part of the newly created Community Values & Connection thematic area. Leadership for this area is provided by Greg Henderson, who also continues as my Chief of Staff.
Introducing Emily Gerst as the Director of William & Mary’s inaugural office of Conflict Resolution & Education!
 

The Center for Student Diversity and the Office of First Generation Student Engagement are part of the newly created Planning, Strategy, & Integrative Practices thematic area. Leadership for this area is provided by Anna Mroch, who had been serving as our Director of Student Affairs Strategic Planning and Assessment and for 2023-24 served as Interim AVP for Student Engagement & Leadership.
Introducing Monique Williams as the Interim Director of the Center for Student Diversity!
 

While not part of the reorganization, we’d also like to welcome Dr. Mike Patterson, who is new to W&M this summer. He is providing leadership for the Student Engagement & Leadership thematic area, which includes Student Leadership Development, Civic and Community Engagement, Student Unions and Engagement, and Student Veteran Engagement!
 

We’re excited about the opportunities these changes bring to support our vision: “To create an engaging learning environment where community is strengthened and individuals flourish.” We in Student Affairs and Public Safety eagerly anticipate working with you and look forward to seeing you back on campus very soon. On that note, you are warmly invited to our annual Student Life Neighborhood block party in and around the Sadler Center on Sunday, August 25 from 7:30-11pm to connect with us and with one another!

 

Sincerely,

 

Ginger Ambler
Senior VP for Student Affairs & Public Safety