Dear Students,

Homecoming & Reunion Weekend, one of our great William & Mary traditions, returns Oct. 17-20! Our whole community, including more than 3,000 alumni, will come together on campus to celebrate the people and places that make W&M extraordinary.

This year’s Homecoming Grand Marshal is Oscar winner Cord Jefferson ’04. His directorial debut, the film “American Fiction,” won Best Adapted Screenplay earlier this year, and he previously won an Emmy for his writing on the show “Watchmen.”

See the full Homecoming schedule.
Register to attend.

Starting early next week, you’ll see a large event tent being assembled on the Sunken Garden, along with several smaller tents. With so much activity in and around the Sunken Garden, please be careful when walking close to the tents as some paths may be obstructed. We will do our very best to ensure that noise from all of the activity will be minimal. 

Here are just a few highlights of Homecoming weekend:

Homecoming Parade
Friday, Oct. 18, 4:30-5:30 p.m. | Richmond Road

Find the perfect spot along Richmond Road to cheer for Grand Marshal Cord Jefferson ’04 and student organizations in the parade! The W&M Alumni Association will be awarding cash prizes to participating student groups based on creativity, spirit and more. There’s still time for your student organization to apply to be in the parade! Fill out the form by midnight TOMORROW, Oct. 4.

Student Talkback with Cord Jefferson ’04

Friday, Oct. 18, 6:30-9 p.m. | Glenn Close Theatre

Ask Cord Jefferson your questions in this informal talkback before a screening of his Oscar-winning film “American Fiction.” Moderated by William Henderson ’26, this event is a collaboration between Students for University Advancement, Student Assembly and AMP. Space is limited so reserve your ticket now!

Homecoming Football Game

Saturday, Oct. 19, 3:30 p.m. | Zable Stadium

The Tribe takes on the Campbell Camels. Don’t miss a special Navy flyover before kickoff in honor of W&M’s new Naval ROTC! Get tickets in the student section on the Tribe Athletics website. Before the game, grab lunch at the tailgates on the Sunken Garden or on the Kaplan Arena Lawn.

Cheers to Your Senior Year
Sunday, Oct. 20, 12-2 p.m. | Sunken Garden, Main Tent
Celebrate our final Homecoming before becoming alumni with a rustic brunch under the big tent in the Sunken Garden. Gather alongside fellow seniors to enjoy southern breakfast bites, artisanal cocktails and mocktails, and craft cold brew. Class of 2025, look for more information in your email.

Several alumni groups are also hosting events, to which all students are welcome:

Order of the White Jacket Annual Scholarship Reception

Thursday, Oct. 17, 3-5 p.m. | Wren Building, Great Hall

OWJ fosters and strengthens the bonds between those who worked in food service.

Familia Reception for Alumni & Students

Friday, Oct. 18, 6:30-7 p.m. | Alumni House

Celebrate the new name of the Latinx Alumni Association with guest speaker Professor John Riofrio.

Mosaic Receptions

Friday, Oct. 18, 7-8:30 p.m. | Alumni House

Join Mosaic — APIM (Asian-Pacific Islander-Middle Eastern) Alumni Association, the Crim Dell Association (LGBTQ+), the Hulon Willis Association (Black and African descent) and Familia (Latino) — alumni and students for a reception.

W&M Military & Veterans Breakfast (Presented by the Association of 1775)
Saturday, Oct. 19, 8:30-10 a.m. | Sadler Center, Chesapeake
Join the Association of 1775 and W&M VET as they host a hearty breakfast to honor W&M military and veterans.

Register to attend any of these events online by Oct. 10 or sign up at the Alumni House or in the Sunken Garden during the weekend.

See you there!

Ginger Ambler


 